
XXXI.-“CHARITY ENVIETH NOT “-HE THAT LOVES JESUS DOES NOT ENVY THE GREAT ONES OF THE WORLD, BUT ONLY THOSE WHO ARE GREATER LOVERS OF JESUS CHRIST.

**I.**

St. Gregory explains this next characteristic of Charity in saying that, as Charity despises all earthly greatness, nothing in the world can possibly provoke her envy. “She envieth not, because as she desireth nothing in this world, she cannot envy earthly prosperity.” We must distinguish two kinds of envy, one evil and the other holy. The evil kind is that which envies and repines at the worldly goods possessed by others on this earth. But holy envy, so far from wishing to be like, rather compassionates the great ones of the world who live in the midst of honours and earthly pleasures. She seeks and desires God alone, and has no other aim besides that of loving Him as much as she can; and therefore she has a pious envy of those who love Him more than she does, for she would, if possible, surpass the very seraphim in loving Him.

**II.**

This is the sole end pious souls have in view on earth, an end which so charms and ravishes the Heart of God with love that it causes Him to say: _Thou hast wounded my heart, my sister, my spouse, thou hast wounded my heart with one of thy eyes_-(Cant. iv. 9). By one of thy eyes is meant that one end which the espoused soul has in all her devotions and thoughts, namely, to please Almighty God. Men of the world look on things with many eyes, that is, have several inordinate views in their actions; as, for instance, to please others, to become honoured, to obtain riches, and, if nothing else, at least to please themselves; but the Saints have but a single eye, with which they keep in view, in all that they do, the sole pleasure of God; and with David they say: _What have I in heaven, and besides thee what do I desire upon earth_-(Ps. lxxii. 25). What do I wish, O my God, in this world or in the next, save Thee alone? Thou art my riches, Thou art the only Lord of my heart. “Let the rich,” said St. Paulinus, “enjoy their riches, let the kings enjoy their kingdoms, Thou, O Christ, art my treasure and my kingdom!”


