
**I\.**

The servants of Mary are protected by her, and their names are written in the Book of Life. St. John Damascene says that God gives the grace of devotion to His Mother only to those whom He will save. This is also clearly expressed by our Lord in St. John: *He that shall overcome... I will write upon him the Name of my God, and the name of the city of my God* (Apoc. iii. 12). And who but Mary is this *city of God?* observes St. Gregory on the words of David: *Glorious things are said of thee, O city of God* (Ps. lxxxvi. 3).

Correctly, then, can we here say with St. Paul: *Having this seal, the Lord knoweth who are his* (2 Tim. ii. 19). That is to say, whoever carries with him the mark of devotion to Mary is recognized by God as His own. Hence St. Bernard writes that devotion to the Mother of God is a most certain mark of eternal salvation. Blessed Alan, speaking of the \"Hail Mary,\" also says, that \"whoever often honours our Blessed Lady with this Angelical Salutation has a very great mark of predestination.\" He says the same thing of perseverance in the daily recital of the Rosary — \"that those who do so have a very great assurance of salvation.\" Father Nieremberg says that \"the servants of the Mother of God are not only privileged and favoured in this world, but even in Heaven they are more particularly honoured.\" He then adds: \"in Heaven they will be recognized as servants of its Queen, and as belonging to her court, by a distinguishing and richer garment,\" according to the words of the Proverbs: *All her domestics are clothed with double garments* (Prov. xxxi. 21).

Ah, my most beloved Mother, never allow a servant of thine to become the enemy of God Whom thou lovest so much! Alas, there was a time when I offended God. But then, O Lady, I loved thee but little! O my Mother, pray to Jesus for me. Nothing else is needed. Thou hast to save me. Thou art my hope. I will sing for ever: O Mary, thou hast to save me!

**II\.**

St. Mary Magdalen de Pazzi saw a vessel in the midst of the sea, and in it were all the clients of Mary, and this Blessed Mother herself steered it safely into the port. By this the Saint understood, that those who live under the protection of Mary are secure, in the midst of the dangers of this life, from the shipwreck of sin, and from eternal damnation; for she guides them safely into the haven of salvation. Let us then enter this blessed ship of the mantle of Mary, and there we can be certain of the Kingdom of Heaven; for the Church says: \"O holy Mother of God, all those who will be partakers of eternal happiness dwell in thee, living under thy protection.\"

Most holy Virgin Mary, Mother of God, I (N.N.), although most unworthy to be thy servant, yet moved by thy wonderful compassion, and by my desire to serve thee, now choose thee, in presence of my Guardian Angel and of the whole celestial court, for my especial Lady, Advocate, and Mother: and I firmly purpose always to love and serve thee for the future, and to do all in my power to induce others to love and serve thee also. I beseech thee, O Mother of God, and my most compassionate and loving Mother, by the Blood which thy Son shed for me, to receive me into the number of thy servants, to be thy child and servant forever. Assist me in all my thoughts, words, and actions in every moment of my life, so that every step I take, and every breath I draw, may be directed to the greater glory of my God; and through thy most powerful intercession, may I never more offend my beloved Jesus, but may glorify Him and love Him in this life, and love thee, my most beloved and dear Mother, and thus love thee and enjoy thee in Heaven for all eternity. AMEN.

DEO GRATIAS ET MARIAE

DE PERPETUO SUCCURSU!
