
III\. THE MEANS TO BE EMPLOYED FOR PRESERVING A RELIGIOUS VOCATION

He, then, who wishes to be faithful to the Divine call, ought not only to resolve to follow it, but to follow it promptly, as soon as ever he can, if he does not wish to expose himself to the evident danger of losing his Vocation. Should he, of necessity, be forced to wait, he ought to use all diligence to preserve it, as the most precious jewel he could possess.

The means to preserve one\'s Vocation are three in number:

1\. *Secrecy;*\
2. *Prayer;*\
3. *Recollection.*

*A. Secrecy*

Generally speaking, he must keep his Vocation secret from everybody except his spiritual Father, because, commonly, people of the world scruple not to say to young people who are called to the Religious state, that one may serve God *anywhere*, and therefore *in the world* also. And the wonder is that such propositions come sometimes out of the mouths of priests, and even of Religious, but of such only who have become Religious without a Vocation, or do not know what Vocation means. Most certainly he who is not called to the Religious state may serve God in every place, but not so he who is called to Religion, and then from his own inclination wishes to remain in the world; such a one, as I have said before, can with difficulty lead a good life, and serve God.

It is especially necessary not to speak about Vocation to parents.

It was, indeed, the opinion of Luther, as Bellarmine relates, that children entering Religion without the consent of their parents commit a sin. For, said he, children are bound to obey their parents in all things. But this opinion has generally been rejected by Councils and the Holy Fathers. The Tenth Council of Toledo expressly declares that it is lawful for children to become Religious without the consent of their parents, provided they have attained the age of fourteen years. Here are the words of the Council: \"It shall not be lawful for parents to put their children in a Religious Order after they have attained their fourteenth year. After this age, it shall be lawful for children to take upon themselves the yoke of Religious observance, whether it be with the consent of their parents, or only the wish of their own hearts.\" The same is taught by St. Ambrose, St. Jerome, St. Augustine, St. Bernard, St. Thomas, and others, with St. John Chrysostom who writes: \"When parents stand in the way of spiritual good, they ought not even to be recognised.\"

Some Doctors hold that when a child called by God to the Religious state can easily and securely obtain the consent of his parents, without any danger of their hindering him from following his Vocation, it is becoming that he should seek their blessing. This doctrine may be held speculatively, but not in practice, because in practice such a danger always exists. Hence it is well to discuss this point fully, in order to do away with the pharisaical scruples which some entertain.

It is certain that in the choice of a state of life, children are not bound to obey their parents. This is the common teaching of Doctors, with St. Thomas, who says: \"Servants are not bound to obey their masters, or children their parents, with regard to contracting matrimony, preserving virginity, and such like things.\" Nevertheless, with regard to the state of marriage, Father Pinamonti, in his Treatise on *Religious Vocation*, rightly holds the opinion of Sanchez, Comminchio, and others, who teach that a child is bound to take counsel of his parents, because in such matters they have more experience than the young, and generally do their duty. But, speaking of Religious Vocation, he adds that a child is not bound at all to take counsel of his parents, because in this matter they have no experience, and through interest, are commonly changed into enemies, as St. Thomas also remarks when speaking of Religious Vocation. \"Frequently,\" he says \"our friends according to the flesh are opposed to our spiritual good.\" For fathers often prefer that their children should be damned with them rather than be saved away from them. Hence, St. Bernard exclaims: \"O hard father, O cruel mother, whose consolation is the death of their son; who wish rather that I perish with them than reign without them!\"

God, says a grave author, Porrecta, when He calls a person to a perfect life wishes him to forget his father, saying: *Hearken, O daughter, and see, and incline thine ear; and forget thy people and thy father\'s house* (Ps. xliv. 11). By this, then, he adds, the Lord certainly admonishes us that he who is called ought by no means to allow the counsel of parents to intervene. \"If God will have a soul, who is called by Him, to forget his father and his father\'s house, without doubt He suggests by this, that he who is called to the Religious state ought not, before he follows the call, to interpose the counsel of the carnal friends of his household.\"

St. Cyril, commenting on what Jesus Christ said to the youth mentioned above: *No man putting his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God* (Luke ix. 61), says that he who asks for time to confer with his parents in reference to his Vocation is exactly the one who is declared by our Lord to be unfit for Heaven. \"He looks back who seeks for delay that he may be able to confer with his parents.\" Hence, St. Thomas absolutely advises those who are called to Religion, to abstain from deliberating on their Vocation with their relatives: \"From this deliberation, the relatives of the flesh are before all to be excluded; for it is said: *Treat thy cause with thy friend* (Prov. xxv. 9). Now our relatives are in this affair not our friends, but our enemies, according to the saying of our Lord: *A man\'s enemies are they of his own household* (Matt. x. 36).\"

