
The Name of Jesus defends us. Yes, it defends us against all the deceits and assaults of our enemies. For this reason the Messias was called *God the Mighty* (Is. ix. 6); and His Name was called by the Wise Man a strong tower: *The name of the Lord is a strong tower* (Prov. xviii. 10); that we may know that he who avails himself of this powerful Name will not fear all the assaults of hell. St. Paul writes thus: *Christ humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross* (Phil. ii. 8). Jesus Christ during His life humbled Himself in obeying His Father, even to die on the Cross; which is as much as to say, as St. Anselm remarks, He humbled Himself so much that He could humble Himself no more; and therefore His divine Father, as a reward for the humility and obedience of His Son, raised Him to such a sublime dignity that there could be no higher: *God hath given him a name which is above all names; that in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth and under the earth* (Phil. ii. 9, 10). God gave Him a Name which is so great and powerful that it is venerated in Heaven, on earth, and in hell. A Name powerful in Heaven, because it can obtain all graces for us; powerful on earth, because it can save all who invoke it with devotion; powerful in hell, because this Name makes all the devils tremble. These rebel angels tremble at the sound of this most Sacred Name, because they remember that Jesus Christ was the Mighty One Who destroyed the dominion and power they formerly had over man. They tremble, says St. Peter Chrysologus, because at this Name they have to adore the whole Majesty of God \"In this Name the whole majesty of God is adored.\" Our Saviour Himself said that through this powerful Name His disciples should cast out devils. *In my name they shall cast out devils* (Mark xvi. 17). And, in fact, the Church in her Exorcisms always makes use of this Name in driving out the infernal spirits from those who are possessed. And priests who are assisting persons dying call to their aid the Name of Jesus, to deliver them from the assaults of hell, which at that last moment are so terrible.

In the Life of St. Bernardine of Sienna, we see how many sinners the Saint converted, how many abuses he put an end to, and how many cities he sanctified, by trying, when he preached, to induce the people to invoke the Name of Jesus. St. Peter says that there is no other Name given to us by which we can find salvation but this ever-blessed Name of Jesus: *For there is no other name under heaven given to men whereby we must be saved* (Acts iv. 12). Jesus is He Who has not only saved us, but continually preserves us from the danger of sin by His merits, each time we invoke Him with confidence: *Whatsoever you shall ask the Father in my name, that will I do* (Jo. xiv. 13).

In temptations, then, I repeat with St. Laurence Justinian, \"whether you are tempted by the devil, or are attacked by men, invoke the Name of Jesus.\" If the devils and men torment you and urge you to sin, call on Jesus, and you will be delivered; and if temptations do not cease to persecute you, continue to invoke Jesus, and you will never fall. Those who practise this devotion have experienced that they keep themselves safe, and that they always come off victorious.

Let us always add the holy Name of Mary, which is likewise terrible to hell, and we shall always be secure. \"This short prayer — Jesus and Mary — is easy to remember,\" says Thomas a Kempis, \"and powerful to protect; is strong enough to deliver us from all the assaults of our enemies.\"

