
7\. — ST. FRUCTUOSUS BISHOP OF TARRAGONA, AND HIS TWO DEACONS, ST. AUGURIUS AND ST. EULOGIUS.

(January 21)

The Acts of these Martyrs, as found in Ruinart, relate that in the year 259, under the Emperors Valerian and Gallien, Bishop Fructuosus of Tarragona, in Spain, with his two deacons, Augurius and Eulogius, were apprehended by order of Emilian, the governor of the province.

The holy prelate had retired to his room when the soldiers came to arrest him. On hearing the noise he opened the door; and being informed that the governor had summoned him and his two deacons, he said: \"We are ready; but if you will permit me, I will put on my shoes.\" This done, the three Confessors were led to prison.

After six days\' imprisonment they were brought before the governor who, turning to Fructuosus, said: \"Hast thou heard that which the Emperors have commanded?\" The Saint replied: \"I know it not; but this I know, that I am a Christian.\" Emilian: \"They have commanded that the gods be honoured.\" Fructuosus: \"For My part, I adore only One God, Who hath made Heaven and earth.\" Emilian: \"Art thou not aware of the existence of the gods?\" Fructuosus: \"I am not.\" Emilian: \"Shortly thou shalt be. To what will men render homage, if they adore not the gods and the images of the emperors?\" Then turning to Augurius, the deacon, he said: \"Give no ear to the words of Fructuosus.\" Augurius replied: \"I adore One Omnipotent God.\" The governor then turned to Eulogius and said: \"Perhaps thou also adorest Fructuosus?\" The deacon replied: \"No; I adore him not; but I adore the same God Whom he worships.\" The governor, then turning to Fructuosus, asked him: \"Art thou the bishop?\" The Saint replied: \"Yes, I am.\" Emilian said: \"Thou shouldst have rather said: \'I have been,\' for thou shalt be so no longer. I condemn you all three to the flames.\"

Whilst St. Fructuosus and his deacons were being led to the amphitheatre to undergo their sentence, the people, moved to compassion for the venerable bishop who was beloved not only by the faithful, but even by the idolaters, presented him a cup, requesting him to drink and be strengthened; but he refused, saying, that it was not yet the hour for breaking the fast.\* When they arrived at the amphitheatre, the Saint appeared filled with a tranquil joy. His Lector, Augustalis, came to him weeping, and begged he would permit him to take off his shoes. \"No, my son,\" replied the holy bishop, \"allow me to take them off myself; for the certainty which I have of the Divine promises gives me sufficient strength.\" Having taken off his shoes, one of the faithful took him by the hand and desired he would remember him in his prayers. The Saint replied: \"I am bound to pray for the whole Catholic Church from East to West.\" By these words, as St. Augustine observes, he wished to signify that each one of the faithful becomes a participator in all the prayers of the Church.

\*This fast, called *The Fast of the Stations*, was kept on Wednesdays and Fridays. It was not broken till about three o\'clock in the afternoon, and it was then ten o\'clock in the morning. — ED.

When he was about to receive the crown of Martyrdom he raised his voice, as the Acts relate, and said to the Christians: \"Be not afraid; you shall not be left without a pastor, for the love and the promises of the Lord never fail. That which you see me now about to suffer is the pain only of an hour.\" Having said these words, he was, together with his companions, encircled with fire; but the Lord so disposed it, that the flames consumed only the bands with which their hands were tied; wherefore, being at liberty to stretch forth their arms, they prostrated themselves in prayer, and raising their hands to Heaven besought the Almighty to allow the fire to consume them, that their sacrifice might be completed. The Lord vouchsafed to hear their prayers, and placidly expiring, they went to receive the reward of their Martyrdom.

After their death, God was pleased to glorify His servants by manifesting their triumph to two Christians, Babylas and Mygdone, domestics of the governor. These saw the heavens open, and St. Fructuosus between his two deacons, surrounded with a halo of glory and ascending to receive their crowns. They called Emilianus to witness the ascent into Heaven of those whom he had that day condemned; but he was unworthy of the heavenly vision.

The faithful, who were exceedingly afflicted at the death of their pastor, came in the night to the amphitheatre, extinguished the smouldering remains of the fire, and were carrying away the bones of the Martyrs; the holy bishop appeared to them, and commanded that all the relics should be buried together.

The Acts of these Martyrs terminate with the following devout aspiration: \"O Blessed Martyrs, like gold, they have been tried in the furnace, and found worthy a crown of everlasting glory! To this crown their example invites us also!\" St. Augustine, in a sermon delivered on the Anniversary of these Martyrs, observes that from the fact that they have attained to such glory, although being men of the same condition that we are, we should hope to overcome all the obstacles to our salvation, through the grace of Jesus Christ Who can render that easy which our weakness looks upon as insuperable.

