
III\. — CHARITY TOWARDS THE NEIGHBOUR

He who loves God loves his neighbour also: but he who loves not his neighbour loves not God, for the Divine Precept is: *that he who loveth God love also his brother* (1 Jo. iv. 21). We must also love our neighbour in heart as well as in deed. And how much are we to love him? Here is the rule: *Love the Lord thy God with thy whole soul... and thy neighbour as thyself* (Luke x. 27). We must, then, love God above all things, and more than ourselves; and our neighbour as ourselves. So that, as we desire our own good, and rejoice in it, and, on the contrary, are sorry for any evil that may happen to us; so also we must desire our neighbour\'s good, and rejoice when he obtains it; and, on the other hand, we must be sorry for his misfortune. So, again, without good grounds we must neither judge nor suspect evil of our neighbour. And this is what constitutes *interior charity*.

*External charity* regards our words and actions towards the neighbour. As to words, — first, we must abstain from the least shadow of detraction. A detractor is hateful to God and man. But he who speaks well of every one is beloved by God and men; and when the fault cannot be excused, we must at least excuse the intention. Secondly, let us be careful not to repeat to any one the evil that has been said of him by another; because sometimes long enmities and revenge arise from such things. The Scripture says that he who sows discord is hated by God. Thirdly, we must take care not to wound our neighbour, by saying, even in jest, any thing that may hurt him. Would *you* like to be laughed at in the same way as you laugh at your neighbour? Fourthly, let us avoid disputes. Sometimes on account of a mere trifle quarrels are begun, which end in abuse and rancour. We have also to guard against the spirit of contradiction which some indulge by gratuitously setting themselves to contradict everything. On such occasions give your opinion and then be quiet. Fifthly, let us speak gently to all, even to our inferiors; therefore let us not make use of imprecations or abuse. And when our neighbour is angry with us, and somewhat abusive, let us answer meekly and the quarrel will be at an end: *A mild answer breaketh wrath* (Prov. xv. 1). And when annoyed by our neighbour, we must be careful not to speak because our passion will then make us go too far: it will make us exaggerate, and afterwards we shall certainly be sorry for it. St. Francis of Sales said: \"I was never angry in my life that I did not repent of it shortly afterwards.\" The rule is to be silent as long as we feel ourselves disturbed. And when our neighbour continues to be irritated, let us reserve the correction till another time, even though it should be necessary; because at the moment our words would not convince or do any good.

With regard also to charity in our actions towards our neighbour. First, it is practised by aiding him as best we may. Let us remember what the Scripture says: *For alms deliver from all sin and from death, and will not suffer the soul to go into darkness* (Job iv. 11). Alms-giving, then, saves us from sin and from hell. By alms is understood any assistance it is in our power to render our neighbour. The kind of almsgiving which is the most meritorious is, to help the soul of our neighbour, by correcting him gently and opportunely whenever we can. And let us not say with some: \"What does it matter to me?\" It does matter to one who is a Christian. He who loves God wishes to see Him loved by all.

Secondly, we must show charity towards the sick who are in greater need of help than others. If they are poor, let us take them some little present. At least let us go and wait on them and comfort them, even though they should not thank us for it. The Lord will reward us for it.

Thirdly, we must above all show charity to our enemies. Some are all kindness with their friends; but Jesus Christ says: *Do good to those that hate you* (Matt. v. 44). By this you may know that a man is a true Christian, if he seeks to do good to those who wish him evil. And if we can do nothing else for those who persecute us, let us at least pray that God will prosper them, according as Jesus commands us: *Pray for them that persecute you* (Matt. v. 44). This is the way the Saints revenged themselves. He who pardons anyone who has offended him, is sure of being pardoned by God, since God has given us the promise: *Forgive, and you shall be forgiven* (Luke vi. 37). Our Lord said one day to the Blessed Angela of Foligno, that the surest sign of your being loved by God, is when you love the person who has offended you.

Fourthly, let us also be charitable to our neighbours who are dead, that is, to the Holy Souls in Purgatory. St. Thomas says, that if we are bound to help our neighbours who are alive, we are also bound to remember them when dead. Those holy prisoners are suffering pains which exceed all the suffering of this life, and, nevertheless, are in the greatest necessity, since they cannot possibly help themselves. A Cistercian monk once said to the sacristan of his monastery: \"Help me, brother, by your prayers, when I can no longer help myself.\" Let us, then, endeavour to succour these Holy Souls either by having Masses said for them, or by hearing Masses for them, by giving alms, or at least by praying and applying indulgences on their behalf. They will show themselves grateful by obtaining great graces for us, not only when they reach Heaven, if they get there sooner through our prayers, but also while still in Purgatory.

