
St. Andrew Avellini used to say that he who wishes to advance in perfection should begin zealously to mortify the appetite. \"It is impossible,\" says St. Gregory, \"to engage in the spiritual conflict without the previous subjugation of the appetite.\" Father Roggacci, in his treatise on *The One Thing Necessary*, asserts that the principal part of external mortification consists in the mortification of the palate. Since the mortification of the taste consists in abstinence from food, must we then abstain altogether from eating? No; it is our duty to preserve the life of the body, that we may be able to serve God as long as He wills us to remain on earth. But, as Father Vincent Carafa used to say, we should attend to the body with the same sense of loathing as a powerful monarch would perform by compulsion the meanest work of a servant.

\"We must,\" says St. Francis de Sales, \"eat, in order to live; but we should not live as if for the purpose of eating.\" Some, like beasts, appear to live only for the gratification of the palate. \"A man,\" says St. Bernard, \"becomes a beast by loving what beasts love.\" Whoever, like brute animals, fixes his heart on the indulgence of the appetite, falls from the dignity of a spiritual and rational creature, and sinks to the level of senseless beasts. Unhappy Adam, for the pleasure of eating an apple, is *compared to senseless beasts, and is become like to them.* In another place, St. Bernard says that, on seeing Adam forget his God and his eternal salvation for the momentary gratification of his palate, the beasts of the fields, if they could have spoken, would say: \"Behold Adam is become one of us!\" Hence, St. Catherine of Sienna used to say that \"without mortifying the taste, it is impossible to preserve innocence; since it was by the indulgence of his appetite that Adam fell.\" Ah! how miserable is the condition of those *whose God is their belly.* (Philipp. iii. 19).

How many have lost their souls by intemperance! In his *Dialogues*, St. Gregory relates that in a monastery of Sienna there was a monk who seemed to lead a very exemplary life. When he was at the point of death, the Religious, expecting to be edified by his last moments, gathered around him. \"Brethren,\" said the dying man, \"when you fasted, I ate in private; and therefore I have been already delivered over to Satan who now deprives me of life and carries away my soul.\" After saying this he expired. The same Saint relates in another place that a certain Religious, seeing in the garden a very fine lettuce, pulled and ate it in opposition to her Rule. She was instantly possessed by a devil, who tormented her grievously. Her companions called to her aid the holy abbot Equitius, at whose arrival the demon exclaimed: \"What evil have I done? I sat upon the lettuce; she came and ate it.\" The holy man, by his commands, compelled the evil spirit to depart. In the *Cistercian Records* we read that St. Bernard once visiting his novices called aside a Brother whose name was Acardo, and said that a certain novice, to whom he pointed, would on that day fly from the monastery. The Saint begged of Acardo to watch the novice, and to prevent his escape. On the following night, Acardo saw a demon approach the novice, and by the savoury smell of a roasted fowl tempt him to desire forbidden food. The unhappy young man awoke, and, yielding to the temptation, took his clothes and prepared to leave the monastery. Acardo endeavoured in vain to convince him of the dangers to which he would be exposed in the world. Overcome by gluttony, the unhappy man obstinately resolved to return to the world: there, the narrator adds, he died miserably.

