
XVI.-MARY IS THE MOTHER OF PENITENT SINNERS.

In the Second Book of Kings-(2 Kings xiv. 5), we read that a wise woman of Thecua addressed King David this wise: _My lord, I had two sons, and for my misfortune one killed the other; so that I have now lost one and justice demands the other, the only one that is left; take compassion on a poor mother, and let me not thus be deprived of both_. David, moved with compassion towards the mother, declared that the delinquent should be set at liberty and restored to her. Mary seems to say the same thing when God is indignant against a sinner, who has recommended himself to her. “My God,” she says, ” I had two sons, Jesus and man; man took the life of my Jesus on the Cross, and now Thy justice would condemn the guilty one. O Lord, my Jesus is already dead, have pity on me, and if I have lost the one, do not make me lose the other also.”

Most certainly God will not condemn those sinners who have recourse to Mary, and for whom she prays, since He Himself commended them to her as her children. The devout Lanspergius supposes our Lord speaking in the following terms: “I recommended all, but especially sinners to Mary, as her children, and therefore is she so diligent and so careful in the exercise of her office that she allows none of those committed to her charge, and especially those who invoke her, to perish, but, as far as she can, brings all to Me.” “And who can ever tell,” says the devout Blosius, “the goodness, the mercy, the compassion, the love, the benignity, the clemency, the fidelity, the benevolence, the charity, of this Virgin Mother towards men? It is such that no words can express it.”

“Let us, then,” says St. Bernard, “cast ourselves at the feet of this good Mother, and, embracing them, let us not depart until she blesses us, and thus accepts us for her children.” And who can ever doubt the compassion of this Mother? St. Bonaventure used to say: “Even should she take my life, I would still hope in her; and, full of confidence, would desire to die before her image and be certain of salvation.” And thus should each sinner address her when he has recourse to this compassionate Mother; he should say: “My Lady and Mother, on account of my sins I deserve that thou shouldst reject me, and even that thou shouldst thyself chastise me according to my deserts; but shouldst thou reject me, or even take my life” I will still trust in thee, and hope with a firm hope that thou wilt save me. In thee is all my confidence; only grant me the consolation of dying before thy picture, recommending myself to thy mercy, then I am convinced that I shall not be lost, but that I shall go and praise thee in Heaven in company with so many of thy servants who left this world calling on thee for help, and have all been saved by thy powerful intercession.”

