
### TWENTY-SIXTH VISIT

_Rejoice, and praise, O thou habitation of Sion; for great is he that is in the midst of thee, the Holy One of Israel_-(Is. xii. 6). O God, and what joy ought not we men to conceive, what hopes and affections, in knowing that in the midst of our land, in our churches, near our homes, the Holy of Holies, the true God, dwells and lives in the Most Holy Sacrament of the Altar! He Who by His presence alone renders the Saints in Heaven blessed! He Who is Love itself! “It is not so much that He has love, as that He is Love itself,” says St. Bernard. This Sacrament is not only a Sacrament of love, but is Love itself, it is God Himself, Who for the immense love He bears His creatures calls Himself, and is, Love itself; _God is Love_-(1 Jo. iv. 16).

But I hear Thee complain, O my Sacramental Jesus: _I was a stranger and you took me not in_-(Matt. xxv. 43); that Thou camest on earth to be our Guest for our good, and that we have not welcomed Thee. Thou art right, Lord, Thou art right; and I am one of those ungrateful creatures who have left Thee alone, without even visiting Thee. Chastise me as Thou pleasest; but not by depriving me of Thy presence, which is the chastisement I deserve; no, I will repair my fault, and the indignities which I have heaped upon Thee. From this day forward I will not only visit Thee often, but will remain with Thee as long a time as I can. O most compassionate Saviour, be pleased to make me faithful to Thee; and grant that I may also, by my example, excite others to keep Thee company in the Most Blessed Sacrament. I hear the Eternal Father Who says: _This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased_. A God, then, finds all His complacency in Thee: and shall not I, a miserable worm, find mine in dwelling with Thee in this valley of tears! O consuming Fire, destroy in me all affection for earthly things; for they alone can render me unfaithful and take me away from Thee. Thou canst do it if Thou wilt: _Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean_. Thou hast already done so much for me, do this also: banish from my heart all love which does not tend towards Thee. Behold, I give myself all to Thee; I now dedicate all the remainder of my life to the love of the Most Blessed Sacrament. Thou, O Sacramental Jesus, hast to be my comfort, my love in life, and at the hour of my death, when Thou wilt come to be my Viaticum and my Guide to Thy blessed kingdom. Amen, amen. So do I hope; so may it be!

Ejac. When, O my Jesus, shall I behold Thy beautiful Face!

**AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION**

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

**VISIT TO MARY**

In thee, our own most holy Mother, we find the remedy for all our woes; in thee we find strength in our weakness; for St. Germanus calls thee, the “strength itself of our weakness;” in thee we find a door by which to make our exit from the slavery of sin; for St. Bonaventure calls thee “the gate of liberty.” In thee we find our certain peace: for the same Saint calls thee, “the safe repose of men.” In thee we find relief in our miserable life, for thou art “the solace of our pilgrimage,” as St. Laurence Justinian calls thee. In thee, in a word, we find divine grace and God Himself, for St. Bonaventure calls thee “the throne of God’s grace” ; and St. Proclus, “the bridge by which God descends to men”; that happy bridge by which God, Who had been driven to a distance by our sins, returns to dwell by His grace in our souls.

Ejac. O Mary, thou art my strength, my deliverance, my peace and salvation!

**Concluding Prayer**

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

