
### TVVENTY-SECOND VISIT

The Spouse in the Sacred Canticles went about seeking for her Beloved; and, not finding Him, she asked all whom she met: _Have you seen him whom my soul loveth?_-(Cant. iii. 3). Jesus was not then on earth; but now, if a soul that loves Him seeks Him, she can always find Him in the Most Blessed Sacrament. Blessed John of Avila was accustomed to say that amongst all sanctuaries he could neither find nor desire a more delightful one than a church in which the Most Blessed Sacrament was reserved.

O infinite love of my God, worthy of infinite love! And how couldst Thou, my Jesus, in order to dwell amongst men, and to unite Thyself to their hearts, humble Thyself so as to conceal Thyself under the species of bread? O incarnate Word, Thou art supreme in Thy humility because Thou art supreme in Thy love! How can I do otherwise than love Thee with my entire self, knowing as I do how much Thou hast done to captivate my love? I love Thee much; and therefore I give Thy good pleasure the preference above every interest and every satisfaction of my own. My pleasure is to give Thee pleasure, my Jesus, my God, my Love, my All. Make me hunger to be continually in Thy presence in the Blessed Sacrament, to receive Thee into my heart, and to keep Thee company. I should be indeed ungrateful did I not accept so sweet and gracious an invitation. Ah, Lord, annihilate in me all affection for created things! Thou willest that Thou alone, my Creator, shouldst be the object of all my sighs, of all my love. I love Thee, most amiable goodness of my God. I ask nothing of Thee but Thyself. I desire not my own pleasure; Thy pleasure is all my desire, and sufficient for me. Accept, my Jesus, this good desire of a sinner who wishes to love Thee. Help me by Thy grace. Grant that I, a miserable slave of hell, may from this day forward be the happy slave of Thy love!

Ejac. I love Thee, Jesus, my Treasure, above every other treasure!

### AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

### VISIT TO MARY

My most sweet Lady and Mother, I am a rebel to thy great Son; but I come repentant to thy mercy, that thou mayst obtain me pardon. Say not that thou canst not do so, for St. Bernard calls thee “the minister of propitiation.” To thee also it belongs to succour those who are in danger, St. Ephrem calling thee “the helper of those in peril.” My Lady, who is in greater danger than I am? I have lost God; it is certain that I have been condemned to hell. I know not whether God has yet pardoned me. I may again lose Him. But thou canst obtain me all; and from thee I hope for every good, for forgiveness, perseverance, and Heaven. I hope to be one of those who, in the kingdom of the blessed, will most praise thy mercies, O Mary, for having saved me by thy intercession.

Ejac. I will sing the mercies of Mary for all eternity. I will sing them for ever and ever! Amen, amen.

### Concluding Prayer

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

