
### TWENTY-SEVENTH VISIT

The holy Church sings in the Office of the Most Blessed Sacrament: _There is no other country, however great, whose gods are nigh as our God is nigh to us_ -(Deut. iv. 7). When the Gentiles heard how far our God carried His works of love, they exclaimed: “Oh, how good a God is the God of the Christians! And, indeed, although the Gentiles imagined their gods according to their own caprices-yet, if you read history, you will never find in all their fables, and among the many gods they invented, that they went so far as even to imagine a god so enamoured of men as is our true God, Who, to show His love for His adorers, and to enrich them with graces, has worked such a prodigy of love as to become their constant Companion, and to remain night and day concealed on their altars, seeming as if He knew not how to separate Himself from them, even for a moment: _He hath made a remembrance of his wonderful works_-(Ps. cx. 4).

Thou, then, my most sweet Jesus, hast been pleased to work the greatest of Thy miracles in order to satisfy the excessive desire Thou hast to remain always near and present to us. Why, then, do men fly from Thy presence? And how can they live for so long a time at a distance from Thee, or visit Thee So seldom? How is it that when in Thy presence they get so weary that a quarter of an hour appears an age? Oh, patience of my Jesus, how great art thou! Yes, my Lord, I understand Thee; Thy patience is great, because the love Thou bearest to men is great: and this it is which, so to say, forces Thee to dwell always in the midst of such ungrateful creatures.

Ah, my God, Who, because Thou art infinite in perfections art also infinite in love, permit not that I should for the future be, as I have hitherto been, of the number of those ungrateful ones. Grant me a love equal to Thy merits and to my own obligations. At one time I also was weary of Thy presence, either because I loved Thee not, or because I loved Thee too little; but if by Thy grace I am enabled to love Thee much, I shall no longer find it tedious to remain even for whole days and nights at Thy feet in the Most Holy Sacrament. O Eternal Father, I offer Thee Thine own Son Himself; accept Him for me, and through His merits give me so ardent and tender a love towards the Most Blessed Sacrament that, constantly turning towards some church in which Jesus dwells, I may think of, and desire with loving anxiety, the time when I may be able to go and entertain myself in His presence.

Ejac. My God, for the love of Jesus, give me a great love for the Most Blessed Sacrament.

**AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION**

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

**VISIT TO MARY**

Mary is that Tower of David, of which the Holy Ghost says in the sacred Canticles: _It is built with bulwarks; a thousand bucklers hang upon it, all the armour of valiant men_-(Cant. iv. 4). A tower built with a thousand fortresses, and containing a thousand shields and weapons, for the benefit of those who have recourse to it. Thou art, then, according to an expression of St. Ignatius the Martyr, O most holy Mary, a most powerful defence for all those who are engaged in battle. Oh, how constantly are my enemies attacking me in order to deprive me of the grace of God and of thy protection, my most dear Lady! But thou art my strength. Thou, indeed, dost not disdain to battle for those who trust in thee; for St. Ephrem calls thee “the bulwark of all who confide in thee.” Do thou, then, defend me and fight for me who have such great hope and confidence in thee.

Ejac. Mary, Mary, thy name is my defense!

**Concluding Prayer**

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

