
It would be too long to relate here all the difficulties with which, for more than a year, the holy founder had to contend. When once his intention was known, all Naples was in commotion against him; and he, whom all had formerly held in admiration, now became the common laughing-stock. All his friends withdrew from him, and his former superiors and associates of the Congregation of the Propaganda vied with one another in the bitter attacks which they made upon what they called his obstinacy and his visionary schemes. But no one was more opposed to Alphonsus than his own father. He left no stone unturned in order to shake his son\'s resolution, and finding that threats were of no avail, he had recourse to tears and entreaties. One day he entered his son\'s room and fell upon his neck, shedding an abundance of tears, and for three hours he held him in a close embrace, imploring him not to abandon his unhappy father. But prayers and tears alike were useless. Alphonsus condescended not to flesh and blood. Victorious in this long conflict, he now bade adieu to Naples, and went to lay the foundations of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, together with a few companions, who were to meet him at this time at Scala. He entered this town on the 8th of November, 1732.

And now a new tempest of troubles was about to burst upon our Saint. The Congregation had scarcely come into existence when discord broke out amongst its members. Each one held a different opinion as to the special work in which the missionaries ought to engage. Many desired that they should add the instruction of youth to the labours of the missions, but Alphonsus was firm in his opinion that his Institute ought to have for its sole end the preaching of the Gospel to the poor and the most abandoned. Arguments were discussed on both sides, but no agreement could be come to either regarding the scope of the Institute or its rules; and finally the little flock was dispersed, and the holy founder was left with only two companions—Father Caesar Sportelli, and Brother Vitus Curzio. This abandonment was a cruel blow to the tender heart of Alphonsus. When the thing became known, the enemies of the Institute exulted for joy, and indulged without restraint in abuse and ridicule. To add to the trials of Alphonsus, Satan involved his soul in a thick darkness, and in an overwhelming sadness; and that nothing might be wanting to his misery, even Bishop Falcoja himself, his confessor, treated him harshly and seemed to abandon him. Alphonsus went to him for consolation, but the bishop said to him, coldly: \"Will you also go away? God has not need of anyone to do His work.\" But then, seeing the deep affliction of Alphonsus, he encouraged him, and bade him persevere in carrying out his Divine vocation. The straits to which Alphonsus now saw himself reduced would have caused another utterly to lose heart, but they did but urge him on to form a magnanimous resolve, which he confirmed by vow, that, even if he could get no one to help him, he would, nevertheless, devote his whole life to evangelising the poor. This heroic resolve at once had its reward. The mind of Alphonsus recovered its usual tranquility, and God, who is ever ready to help those who trust in Him, sent him new companions and fellow-workers. The grief of the holy man at the loss of his first associates was soon changed into joy when he saw his solitude peopled by promising subjects, and from this time the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer was established on a firm footing. The little seed was gradually growing into a mighty tree, which was to extend its branches unto the uttermost parts of the earth.

Nothing could be imagined more humble than the first beginnings of the Institute. Poverty the most complete reigned in the house at Scala. As they had no tabernacle, Alphonsus placed the Blessed Sacrament in a box which he had decorated with ribbons and garlands. The altar had no other ornament but some little bouquets of artificial roses and other flowers. But, in spite of its poverty, the little sanctuary breathed a heavenly sweetness. There Alphonsus, wholly absorbed in the love of Jesus, used to spend whole nights in the presence of the Most Holy Sacrament. Close to the house was a half-ruined grotto, to which the Saint frequently withdrew, in order to give himself to prayer and to frightful austerities. In this place, tradition tells us, that he was favoured with many visions of the Virgin Mother of God, who bestowed upon him numerous proofs of her maternal affection. Alphonsus confessed that it was here he used to discuss the welfare of his Congregation with this loving Mother. Thus the remembrance of this grotto was always dear to him, and as often as he returned to Scala he used to visit it, exclaiming: \"Oh, my grotto, my beloved grotto! would that I could enjoy thee as in the days gone by!\"

When once the Congregation was established, the chief aim of its founder was to work hard for its propagation. Henceforth it was his home for thirty happy years, until 1762; and during all this time he was in the midst of his children as a burning and a shining light, by the holiness of his life and by his devotion through love of Jesus, to the work of redemption. This part of the saint\'s life was taken up with three important occupations, namely, the holy missions, the government of his Congregation, and the publication of his writings.

