
2\. — THE NECESSITY OF MARY\'S INTERCESSION FOR OUR SALVATION.

This proposition — that all we receive from our Lord comes through Mary — does not exactly please a certain modern writer,\* who, although in other respects he speaks of true and false devotion with much learning and piety, yet when he treats of devotion towards the Divine Mother, seems to grudge her that glory which was given her without scruple by a St. Germanus, a St. Anselm, a St. John Damascene, a St. Bonaventure, a St. Antoninus, a St. Bernardine, the Venerable Abbot of Celles, and so many other learned men, who had no difficulty in affirming that the intercession of Mary is not only useful but necessary. This same author says that the proposition that God grants no grace otherwise than through Mary is hyperbolical and exaggerated, having dropped from the lips of some Saints in the heat of fervour, but which, correctly speaking, is only to be understood as meaning that through Mary we received Jesus Christ, by whose merits we obtain all graces; for he adds: \"To believe that God can grant us no graces without the intercession of Mary would be contrary to the Faith and the doctrine of St. Paul, who says that we acknowledge *there is one God and one Mediator of God and men, the man Christ Jesus* (1 Tim. ii. 5).

\* This was the celebrated Muratori. — ED.

But with his leave, and going upon his own admissions, *mediation of justice* by way of merit is one thing, and *mediation by grace* by way of prayer is another. And again, it is one thing to say that God *cannot*, and another that He *will not*, grant graces without the intercession of Mary. We willingly admit that God is the Source of every good, and the absolute Master of all graces; and that Mary is only a pure creature, who receives whatever she obtains as a pure favour from God. But who can ever deny that it is most reasonable and proper to assert that God, in order to exalt this great creature, who more than all others honoured and loved Him during her life, and whom, moreover, He had chosen to be the Mother of His Son, our common Redeemer, wills that all graces that are granted to those whom He has redeemed should pass through and be dispensed by the hands of Mary? We most readily admit that Jesus Christ is the only Mediator of justice, according to the distinction just made, and that by His merits He obtains us all graces and salvation; but we say that Mary is the Mediatress of grace; and that receiving all she obtains through Jesus Christ, and because she prays and asks for it in the Name of Jesus Christ, yet all the same whatever graces we receive come to us through her intercession.

There is certainly nothing contrary to Faith in this, but the reverse. It is quite in accordance with the sentiments of the Church, which, in its public and approved prayers, teaches us continually to have recourse to this Divine Mother, and to invoke her as the \"health of the weak, the refuge of sinners, the help of Christians, and as our life and hope.\" In the Office appointed to be said on the Feasts of Mary, this same holy Church, applying the words of Ecclesiasticus to this Blessed Virgin, gives us to understand that in her we find all hope. *In me is all hope of life and of virtue!* (Ecclus. xxiv. 25). In Mary is every grace. *In me is all grace of the way and of the truth* (Ecclus. xxiv. 25). In Mary, finally, we find life and eternal salvation: *He that shall find me shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord* (Prov. viii. 35). And elsewhere: *They that work by me shall not sin; they that explain me shall have life everlasting* (Ecclus. xxiv. 30, 31). And surely such expressions as these sufficiently prove that we require the intercession of Mary.

Moreover, we are confirmed in this opinion by so many Theologians and Fathers, of whom it is certainly incorrect to say, as the above-named author does, that, in exalting Mary, they spoke hyperbolically and allowed great exaggerations to fall from their lips. To exaggerate and speak hyperbolically is to exceed the limits of truth; and surely we cannot say that Saints who were animated by the Spirit of God, which is Truth itself, spoke thus. If I may be allowed to make a short digression and give my own sentiment, it is, that when an opinion tends in any way to the honour of the most Blessed Virgin, when it has some foundation, and is not repugnant to the Faith, nor to the decrees of the Church, nor to truth, the refusal to hold it, or to oppose it because the reverse *may* be true, shows little devotion to the Mother of God. Of the number of such as these I do not choose to be, nor do I wish my reader to be, but rather of the number of those who fully and firmly believe all that can without error be believed of the greatness of Mary, according to the Abbot Rupert, who, amongst the acts of homage most pleasing to this good Mother, places that of firmly believing all that redounds to her honour. If there was nothing else to take away our fear of exceeding in the praises of Mary, St. Augustine should suffice; for he declares that whatever we may say in praise of Mary is little in comparison with that which she deserves on account of her dignity of Mother of God; and, moreover, the Church says, in the Mass appointed for her Festivals: \"Thou art happy, O sacred Virgin Mary, and most worthy of all praise.\"

But let us return to the point, and examine what the Saints say on the subject. St. Bernard says that \"God has filled Mary with all graces, so that men may receive by her means, as by a channel, every good thing that comes to them.\" He says that \"she is a full aqueduct, that others may receive of her plenitude.\" On this the Saint makes the following significant remark: \"Before the birth of the Blessed Virgin, a constant flow of graces was wanting, because this aqueduct did not exist.\" But now that Mary has been given to the world, heavenly graces constantly flow through her on all.

