
4.-THE NECESSITY OF MARY\'S INTERCESSION FOR OUR SALVATION.

St. Bernard say that \"as a man and a woman co-operated in our ruin, so it was proper that another man and another woman should co-operate in our Redemption, and these two were Jesus and His Mother Mary.\" \"There is no doubt,\" says the Saint, \"that Jesus Christ alone was more than sufficient to redeem us; but it was more becoming that both sexes should co-operate in the reparation of an evil in causing which both had shared.\" Hence Blessed Albert the Great calls Mary, the \"helper of the redemption\": and the Blessed Virgin herself revealed to St. Bridget, that \"as Adam and Eve sold the world for an apple, so did she with her Son redeem it as it were with one heart.\" This is confirmed by St. Anselm, who says that \"although God could create the world out of nothing, yet, when it was lost by sin, he would not repair the evil without the co-operation of Mary.\"

Suarez says that \"Mary co-operated in our salvation in three ways; first, by having merited, by a merit of congruity, the Incarnation of the Word; secondly, by having continually prayed for us whilst she was living in this world; thirdly, by having willingly sacrificed the life of her Son to God.\" For this reason our Lord has justly decreed, that, as Mary co-operated in the salvation of man with so much love, and at the same time gave such glory to God, so all men through her intercession are to obtain their salvation.

Mary is called \"the co-operator in our justification\"; for to her God has entrusted all graces intended for us; and therefore St. Bernard affirms that \"all men, past, present, and to come, should look upon Mary as the means and negotiator of the salvation of all generations.\"

Jesus Christ says that no one can find Him unless the Eternal Father first draws him by the means of Divine grace: *No man can come to me, except the Father who hath sent me, draw him* (Jo. vi. 44). Thus also does Jesus Christ address His Mother, says Richard of St. Laurence: \"No one comes to Me unless My Mother first of all draw him by her prayers.\" Jesus was the fruit of Mary, as St. Elizabeth told her: *Blessed art thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb* (Luke i. 42). Whoever, therefore, desires the fruit must go to the tree; whoever desires Jesus must go to Mary; and whoever finds Mary will most certainly find Jesus.

When St. Elizabeth saw that the most Blessed Virgin had come to visit her in her own house, not knowing how to thank her, and filled with humility, she exclaimed: *And whence is this to me, that the Mother of my Lord should come to me?* (Luke i. 43). But, we may ask, how could this be? Did not St. Elizabeth already know that not only Mary, but also Jesus, had entered her house? Why then does she say that she is unworthy to receive the Mother, and not, rather, that she is unworthy to receive the Son, Who had come to visit her? Ah, yes, it was because the Saint knew full well that when Mary comes she brings Jesus, and therefore it was sufficient to thank the Mother without naming the Son.

