
What is our life on this earth but a scene that ends very soon and passes away? *The fashion of this world passeth away*. The world is a stage; one generation passes away, another appears! \"Thus end the grandeurs and crowns of this world!\" exclaimed Francis Borgia, \"Henceforth I will serve a Master Who can never die!\"

**I\.** *The time is short: it remaineth that... they that use this world be as if they used it not; for the fashion of this world passeth away* (l Cor. vii. 29, 31). What is our life on this earth but a scene which passes away and ends very soon? *The fashion of this world passeth away*. \"The world,\" says Cornelius a Lapide, \"is like a stage; one generation passes away, another appears.\" He who acts the part of a king, takes not the purple with him. O villa, O house, tell me how many masters hast thou had? Ah, when the comedy is over, the king is no longer king; the master ceases to be master. You at present are in the possession of such a villa, such a palace; but death will come, and they will pass to other masters.

*The affliction of an hour maketh one forget great delights* (Ecclus. xi. 29). The gloomy hour of death brings to an end and makes us forget all the grandeur, the nobility, the pomp of the world. Casimir, King of Poland, while he sat at a table with the nobles of his kingdom, died in the act of raising a cup to his lips, — and the scene ended for him! In seven days after his election, the Emperor Celsus was killed, — and the scene closed for Celsus! Ladislaus, King of Poland, in his eighteenth year, while he was preparing for the reception of his bride, the daughter of the King of France, was suddenly seized with a violent pain, which soon deprived him of life. Couriers were instantly despatched to announce to her that the scene was over for Ladislaus, and that she might return to France. By meditating on the vanity of the world, Francis Borgia became a Saint. At the sight of the Empress Isabella, who had died in the midst of worldly grandeur and in the flower of youth, he, as has been already said, resolved to give himself entirely to God. \"Thus, then,\" he said, \"end the grandeurs and crowns of this world! I will henceforth serve a Master Who can never die!\"

Ah, my God, I do not wish that the devil have any longer dominion over my soul; I wish that Thou alone be the Lord and Master of it. I will renounce all things in order to acquire Thy grace. I esteem it more than a thousand thrones and a thousand kingdoms. And whom shall I love but Thee, Who art infinitely amiable, an infinite Good, infinite Beauty, Bounty, and Love?

**II\.** Let us endeavour to live in such a manner that what was said to the fool in the Gospel may not be said to us at the hour of death: *Thou fool, this night do they require thy soul of thee: and whose shall those things be which thou hast provided?* (Luke xii. 20). Hence the Redeemer adds: *So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God* (Luke xii. 21). Again Christ tells you to acquire the riches, not of the world, but of God; — of virtues and merits, which are goods that will remain with you for eternity in Heaven. *Lay up to yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither the rust nor the moth doth consume* (Matt. vi. 20). Let us, then, labour to acquire the great treasure of Divine love. \"What has the rich man if he has not charity?\" asks St. Augustine, \"and what does the poor man need, if he has charity?\" If a man had all the riches in the world, and has not God, he is the poorest of men. But the poor man who possesses God, possesses all things. And who are they that possess God? *He*, says St. John, *that abideth in charity, abideth in God, and God in him* (1 Jo. iv. 16).

Hitherto, O Lord God, I have left Thee for creatures: this is and always shall be to me a source of sorrow piercing my heart with grief for having offended Thee Who hast loved me with so much tenderness. But since Thou hast favoured me with so many graces, I can no longer bear to see myself without Thy love. O my Love, take possession of my whole will, and of all that I possess, and do with me what Thou pleasest. If I have hitherto been impatient under adversity, I ask pardon. O my Lord, I will never complain of Thy arrangements; I know that they are all holy, all for my welfare. Treat me, O my God, as Thou willest; I promise to be always content, always thankful to Thee. Make me love Thee, and I ask no more. What goods, what honours, what world can I love? O God! O God! I wish only for God! Happy thee, O Mary, who loved nothing in the world but God. Obtain for me the grace to imitate thee, at least during the remainder of my life. In thee I trust.

