
*With desire have I desired to eat this pasch with you.* By these words our Redeemer describes His eagerness to unite Himself with each one of us in the Blessed Sacrament. *With desire have I desired.* This is the expression of most burning love, says St. Laurence Justinian. So that Our Lord said one day to St. Mechtilde: \"No bee throws itself with such eagerness on flowers, to suck their honey, as I come to the souls which desire Me.\"

**I\.**

Let us consider the great desire Jesus Christ has that we should receive Him in Holy Communion: *Jesus, knowing that his hour was come.* (John xiii. 1). How could He call *his hour* that in which His bitter Passion was to begin? He speaks thus, because in that night He was about to leave us this Divine Sacrament, that He might unite Himself perfectly to His beloved souls; and this desire made Him say: *With desire I have desired to eat this pasch with you.* (Luke xxii. 15). By these words our Redeemer describes His eagerness to unite with each of us in this Sacrament: *With desire have I desired*; The immense love He bears us makes Him speak thus. St. Laurence Justinian says, \"This is the expression of most burning love.\" And He has been pleased to veil Himself beneath the species of bread, that so all may be able to receive Him. If He had concealed Himself under the appearance of any expensive food, the poor would have been unable to obtain it; and even if He had chosen some other inexpensive food, it might perhaps not have been found in all parts of the world: Jesus has been pleased to remain under the form of bread, because bread costs little, and is to be had everywhere; so that in all places we may find Him and receive Him.

Our Redeemer\'s great desire to be received by us, makes Him not only exhort us in so many ways to come to Him. *Come, eat my bread, and drink the wine which I have mingled for you.* (Prov. ix. 5). *Eat, O friends, drink and be inebriated, my dearly-beloved.* (Cant. v. 1). But He even imposes it on us as a command to do so: *Take ye, and eat; this is my body.* (Matt. xxvi. 26). And that we may approach to Him, He allures us by the promise of eternal life: *He that eateth my flesh... hath everlasting life; he that eateth this bread shall live for ever.* (John vi. 55-59). And He threatens us with being shut out from Heaven if we do not: *Except you eat the flesh of the son of man... you shall not have life in you.* (John vi. 54). All these invitations, promises, and threats, spring from the desire Jesus has to be united to us in this Sacrament. Now this desire arises from the great love He bears us; for, as St. Francis de Sales says, the end of love is solely to unite itself to the beloved object, and therefore in this Sacrament Jesus unites Himself wholly to our souls: *He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood, abideth in me, and I in him.* (John vi. 57). And for this reason He so earnestly wishes us to receive Him. Our Lord said one day to St. Mechtilde: \"No bee throws itself with such eagerness on flowers, to suck their honey, as I come to those souls which desire Me.\"

Oh, if the faithful would understand the great Good which Holy Communion brings to their souls! Jesus is the Lord of all riches, since He knows *that his father had given him all things into his hands.* (John xiii. 3). St. Dionysius says that the Most Holy Sacrament \"has a special power to sanctify man\'s soul.\" And St. Vincent Ferrer writes, that a soul profits more by one Communion than by a week\'s fast on bread and water. The Council of Trent teaches that Holy Communion is the great \"remedy which frees us from daily sins, and preserves us from mortal sin\"; and hence St. Ignatius the Martyr calls the ever-blessed Sacrament \"the medicine of immortality.\" Innocent III. says, that Jesus Christ \"freed us by the mystery of the Cross from the punishment due to sin; but that by the Sacrament of the Eucharist He frees us from sin itself.\"

O my Jesus, Lover of souls, Thou hast no further proof of love to give to show us that Thou dost love us; what more canst Thou think of to make us love Thee? O Infinite Goodness, I beseech Thee that, from this day forward, I may love Thee with all possible earnestness and tenderness. Who can love my soul more tenderly than Thou, my Redeemer, Who after having given Thy life for me, dost give me Thy whole Self in this Sacrament? My beloved Lord, may I always remember Thy love, so that I may forget all else, and love Thee alone, without interruption and without reserve.

**II\.**

Moreover, this Sacrament kindles in us the love of God: *He brought me into the cellar of wine, he set in order charity in me. Stay me up with flowers, compass me about with apples; because I languish with love.* (Cant. ii. 4, 5). St. Gregory of Nyssa tells us, that this cellar of wine is the Holy Communion, in which the soul is so inebriated with Divine Love, that she forgets earth and all created things. And what intense flames of love does Jesus Christ kindle in souls which receive Him in this Sacrament with a desire that He should do so! St. Catherine of Sienna one day saw Jesus in the hands of a priest as a furnace of love; so that she wondered how all the hearts of mankind were not wholly consumed with such a fire. St. Rose of Lima used to say that, when she communicated, she seemed to receive the sun; and hence such brilliant rays shone from her face, that people used to be dazzled; and such a heat proceeded from her mouth, that those who gave her to drink after Communion, felt their hand scorched, as if they had approached a furnace. When the pious king, St. Wenceslaus, went to visit the Most Holy Sacrament, he burned even outwardly with such ardour, that the servant who accompanied him used, when there was snow on the ground, to set his feet in the footprints of the Saint, and thus he never felt the cold. St. Chrysostom says that \"the Blessed Eucharist is a flame which sets us on fire; so that, like lions breathing flame, we may return from that table dreadful to the devil,\" who has no longer courage to tempt us.

But some will say, \"I do not communicate often, because I feel so cold in the love of God.\" Gerson says that this is the same as if a person would not go near the fire because he was cold: the colder we feel ourselves, the more often we should approach the Most Holy Sacrament, if we really desire to love God. St. Francis de Sales writes: \"If anyone asks you why you communicate so often, tell him that two classes of persons should communicate frequently, the perfect and the imperfect: the perfect, to preserve themselves in perfection; and the imperfect, that they may attain to it.\" St. Bonaventure says, in the same way, \"Even if you be cold, approach, trusting in the mercy of God. The more ill one feels, the more one requires the physician.\" And Jesus Christ said to St. Mechtilde: \"When you are about to communicate, wish that you had all the love that any heart ever felt towards Me; and I will accept it as you wish, as if such love were really yours.\"

I love Thee, my Jesus, above all things, and I wish to love Thee alone; I beseech Thee to drive from my heart all affections which are not for Thee. I thank Thee for giving me time to love Thee and to weep over the offences I have offered to Thee. My Jesus, I desire that Thou mayst be the only object of my affections. Assist me, save me, and let my salvation consist in loving Thee with my whole heart, and in loving Thee always in this life and in the next. Mary, my Mother, obtain for me the grace to love Jesus Christ; pray to Him for me.

