
Death may not, perhaps, come upon us for twenty or thirty years; but it may come very soon; perhaps in a year or a month. And still we lose our time, and, instead of adjusting our accounts, we go on multiplying our sins, which will merit the sentence of eternal death. While we have time, let us work good.

**I.**

_Be you then also ready; for, at what hour you think not, the Son of man will come_-(Luke xii. 40). The Lord says: “Be ready.” He does not tell us to prepare ourselves when death approaches, but to be ready for His coming; because when we are thinking least of death the Son of man will come and demand an account of our whole life. In the confusion of death it will be most difficult to adjust our accounts so as to stand guiltless before the tribunal of Jesus Christ. Death may not perhaps come upon us for twenty or thirty years; but it may also come very soon, perhaps in a year or in a month. If anyone had reason to fear that a trial should take place on which his life depended, he certainly would not wait for the day of the trial, but would, as soon as possible, employ an advocate to plead his cause. And what are we doing? We know for certain that we must one day be judged, and that on the result of that judgment depends not on temporal, but eternal life. We also know that that day may be very near at hand; and still we lose our time, and, instead of adjusting our accounts, we go on daily multiplying our sins which will merit the sentence of eternal death.

If, then, we have hitherto offended God, let us henceforth endeavour to bewail our misfortune for the remainder of our life, and say continually with the penitent King Ezechias: _I will recount to thee all my years in the bitterness of my soul_-(Is. xxxviii. 15). The Lord gives us the remaining days of life that we may make up for the time that has been badly spent. _Whilst we have time, let us work good_.-(Gal. vi. 10). Let us not provoke the Lord to punish us by an unhappy death; and if, during the years that are passed, we have been foolish and have offended Him, let us now attend to the Apostle exhorting us to be wise for the future, and to redeem the time we have lost.

O Lord, how wretched I have been in having for so many years gone after the vanities of the world and left Thee, my sovereign Good! But from this day forward I desire to possess Thee as my only Treasure, as the only Love of my soul.

**II.**

_See, therefore, brethren, how you walk circumspectly, not as unwise, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil . . . understanding what is the will of God._-(Ephes. v. 15,17). The days are evil. According to St. Anselm, the meaning of these words is that the days of this life are evil, because in them we are exposed to a thousand temptations and to the danger of eternal misery; therefore, to escape perdition, all possible care is necessary. “What,” says St. Augustine, “is meant by redeeming the time, unless, when necessary, to submit to temporal loss in order to gain eternal goods?” We should live only to fulfil with all diligence the Divine will; and, should it be necessary, it is better to suffer in temporal things, than to neglect our eternal interests.

Oh, how well did St. Paul redeem the time he had lost! St. Jerome says that, though the last of the Apostles, he was, on account of his great labours, the first in merits. “Paul, the last in order, but the first in merits, because he laboured more than all.” Let us consider that, in each moment, we may lay up greater treasures of eternal goods. If the possession of all the land round which you could walk, or of all the money you could count in a day, were promised you, would you lose time? Would you not instantly begin to walk over the ground, or to reckon the money? You now have it in your power to acquire, in each moment, eternal treasures; and will you notwithstanding, waste your time? Do not say that what you can do today you can also do tomorrow; because this day will be then lost to you, and shall never return. You have today; but perhaps tomorrow will not be given you.

I give Thee thanks, O my God, for having waited for me. What would have become of me had I died one of those nights in which I went to rest under Thy displeasure! But as Thou hast waited patiently for me, it is a sign that Thou wishest to pardon me. Pardon me, then, O my Jesus! I am sorry, and I will never sin again.

