
St. Jerome says that anger is the door by which all vices enter the soul. Let us implore God to preserve us from yielding to any strong passion, and particularly to anger. For he that submits to such a passion is exposed to great danger of falling into grievous sin against God or his neighbour. Let us look on Jesus Crucified and we shall not dare to complain.

**I\.** St. Jerome says that anger is the door by which all vices enter the soul. According to St. Bonaventure, an angry man is incapable of distinguishing between what is right and what is wrong. _The anger of man worketh not the justice of God_-(James i. 20). He that submits to such a passion is exposed to great danger of falling into grievous sin against God, or his neighbour. Thus, when we receive an insult, we must do violence to ourselves and restrain our anger. Let us either answer with meekness or let us remain silent; and thus, as St. Isidore says, we shall conquer. But, if you answer through passion, you will do harm to yourselves and others. It would be still worse to give an angry answer to a person who corrects you. St. Bernard says that some are not angry though they ought to be indignant with those who wound their souls by flattery; but they are filled with indignation against the person who corrects them in order to heal their irregularities. Against the man who abhors correction, the sentence of perdition has, according to the Wise Man, been pronounced. _Because they have despised all my reproofs . . . the prosperity of fools shall destroy them_-(Prov. i. 30, 32). Fools regard as prosperity to be free from correction, or to despise the admonitions they receive; but such prosperity is the cause of their ruin. When you meet with an occasion of anger you must be on your guard not to allow anger to enter your heart. _Be not quickly angry_-(Eccles. vii. 10). Some persons change colour and get into a passion, at every contradiction: and when anger has got admission, no one knows to what it shall lead them. Hence it is necessary to foresee these occasions in our meditations and prayers; for, unless we are prepared for them it will be as difficult to restrain anger as to put a bridle on a runaway horse. If, however, we have the great misfortune to permit anger to enter the soul, let us be careful not to allow it to remain. Jesus Christ tells all who remember that a brother is offended with them not to offer the gift which they bring to the altar without being first reconciled to their neighbour. _Go first to be reconciled to thy brother, and then coming thou shalt offer thy gift_-(Matth. v. 24). And he who has received any offence should endeavour to root out of his heart not only all anger but also every feeling of bitterness towards the persons who have offended him. _Let all bitterness_, says St. Paul, and anger and indignation … _be put away from you_-(Ephes. iv. 31). As long as anger continues, follow the advice of Seneca: “When you shall be angry do nothing, say nothing which may be dictated by anger.” Like David, be silent, and do not speak when you feel that you are disturbed. _I was troubled, and I spoke not_-(Ps. lxxvi. 5). How many, when inflamed with anger, say and do what they afterwards in their calmer moments regret.

**II\.** It is necessary, of course, to remember that it is not possible for human weakness, in the midst of so many occasions, to be altogether free from every motion of anger. No one, as Seneca says, can be entirely exempt from this passion. All our efforts must be directed to the moderation of the feelings of anger which spring up in the soul. How are they to be moderated? By meekness. This is called the virtue of the lamb-that is, the beloved virtue of Jesus Christ. Because like a lamb, without anger or even complaint, He bore the sorrows of His Passion and Crucifixion. _He shall be led as a sheep to the slaughter, and shall be dumb as a lamb before his shearer, and he shall not open his mouth_-(Is. liii. 7). Hence He taught us to learn of Him meekness and humility of heart. _Learn of me, because I am meek and humble of heart_–(Matth. xi. 29).

Oh, how pleasing in the sight of God are the meek, who submit in peace to all crosses, misfortunes, persecutions, and injuries! To the meek is promised the Kingdom of Heaven. _Blessed are the meek, for they shall possess the land_-(Matth. v. 4). They are called the children of God. _Blessed are the peacemakers; for they shall be called the children of God_-(Matth. v. 9). Some boast of their meekness but without any grounds; for they are meek only towards those who praise and confer favours upon them, but to those who injure or censure them they are all fury and vengeance. The virtue of meekness consists in being meek and peaceful towards those who hate and maltreat us. _With them that hated peace I was peaceful_-(Ps. cxix. 6).

We must, as St. Paul says, put on the bowels of mercy towards all men, and bear one with another. Put ye on the bowels of mercy, humility, modesty, patience, bearing with one another, and forgiving one another, _if any have a complaint against another_?-Col. iii. 12). You wish others to bear with your defects, and to pardon your faults; you should act in the same manner towards them. Whenever, then, you receive an insult from a person enraged against you, _remember that a mild answer breaketh wrath_-(Prov. xv. I). A certain monk once passed through a cornfield: the owner of the field ran out and spoke to him in very offensive and injurious language. The monk humbly replied: Brother, you are right; I have done wrong; pardon me. By this answer the husbandman was so much appeased that he instantly became calm, and even wished to follow the monk and enter into Religion. The proud make use of the humiliations they receive to increase their pride; but the humble and the meek turn the contempt and insults offered to them into an occasion of advancing in humility. “He,” says St. Bernard, “is humble who converts humiliation into humility.”

“A man of meekness,” says St. John Chrysostom, “is useful to himself and to others.” The meek are useful to themselves because, according to Father Alvarez, the time of humiliation and contempt is for them the time of merit. Hence Jesus Christ calls His disciples happy when they shall be reviled and persecuted. _Blessed are ye when they shall trevile you and and persecute you_-(Matth. v. 11). Hence the Saints have always desired to be despised as Jesus Christ was despised. The meek are useful to others, because, as the same St. John Chrysostom says, there is nothing better calculated to draw others to God than to see a Christian meek and cheerful when he receives an injury or an insult. The reason is because virtue is known by being tried; and, as gold is tried by fire, so the meekness of men is proved by humiliation. _Gold and silver are tried in the fire, but acceptable men in the furnace of humiliation_-(Ecclus. ii. 5).

