
_He who causeth a sinner to be converted from the error of his way shall save his soul from death and shall cover a multitude of sins_-(James v. 20). Would it not be cruelty in him who would see a blind man walking over a precipice and not admonish him of his danger and thus rescue him from temporal death? But it would be still greater cruelty to neglect, when able, to deliver a neighbour from eternal death.

**I.**

The most perfect charity consists in zeal for your neighbour’s spiritual good. To relieve the spiritual necessities of a fellow-man, or to contribute to his spiritual welfare, as far excels the exercise of charity towards his body as the dignity of the soul transcends the lowly condition of the flesh. Charity towards the soul is practised, in the first place, by correcting our neighbour’s faults. St. James declares that _he who causes a sinner to be converted from the error of his way, shall save his soul from death, and shall cover a multitude of sins_ -(James v. 20). But on the other hand, St. Augustine says that he who sees a neighbour destroying his soul, by giving way to anger against a neighbour, or by insulting him, and neglects to correct him, sins more grievously by his silence than the other does by his insults and contumely. “You,” says the Saint, “see him perish, and care not; your silence is more criminal than his reproachful language.” Do not excuse yourself by saying that you know not how to correct him. St. John Chrysostom tells you that for correcting the faults of others charity is more necessary than wisdom. Make the correction at a seasonable time, with charity and sweetness, and it will be profitable. If you are a Superior, you are bound by your office to correct those under you; if not, you are bound in charity to administer correction as often as you expect fruit from it. Would it not be cruelty in him who should see a blind man walking over a precipice not to admonish him of his danger, and thus rescue him from temporal death? But it would be still greater cruelty in you to neglect, when able, to deliver a neighbour from eternal death. If you prudently judge that your advice would be unprofitable, be careful at least to make known the fault to some other person who will be able to apply a remedy. Do not say, This is not my business; I will not take any trouble about it. This was the language of Cain. _Am I,_ said he, _my brother’s keeper_-(Gen. iv. 9). It is the duty of everyone, when able, to save his neighbor from ruin. _And_, says Ecclesiasticus, _he gave to everyone of them commandment concerning his neighbour-_(Ecclus. xvii. 12}.

**II.**

St. Philip Neri says that, when necessary, God wishes that we omit mental prayer in order to assist a neighbour, particularly in his spiritual necessities. St. Gertrude desired one day to entertain herself in prayer, but a work of charity was to be performed, and therefore the Lord said to her: Tell me, Gertrude, do you intend that I should serve you, or that you should serve Me?”

“If,” says St. Gregory, “you go to God, take care not to go alone to Him.” And Saint Augustine says: “If you love God, draw all to the love of God.” If you love God you should take care not to be alone in loving Him, but should labour to bring to His love all your relatives, and all those with whom you have intercourse.

To appear devout, mortified, devoted to mental prayer and to frequent Communion, in order to give good example to others, in order to induce others to do likewise, is not an act of vanity, but an act of charity, very pleasing to God. _So let your light shine before men that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father who is in heaven_-(Matt. v. 16).

Endeavour, then, to assist all according to the best of your ability, by words, works, and particularly by prayers. Many Doctors, along with St. Basil, teach, that by the words _Amen I say to you, if you ask the Father anything in my name, he will give it you_–(John xvi. 23), Jesus Christ promises to hear our prayers, not only for ourselves, but also for others, provided they do not place a positive obstacle in the way. Hence, in the common prayer, in your Thanksgiving after Communion, and your Visits to the Blessed Sacrament, you should never omit to recommend to God all poor sinners, infidels, and heretics, and all that live without God.

How pleasing to Jesus Christ are the prayers of His spouses for sinners! He once said to the Venerable Sister Seraphina de Capri: “Assist Me, O My daughter, to save souls by your prayers.” To Mary Magdalen de Pazzi he said: “See, Magdalen, how Christians are in the hands of the devil; unless my elect by their prayers deliver them, they will be devoured.” Hence the Saint used to say to her Religious: “My sisters, God has not separated us from the world only for our own good, but also for the benefit of sinners.” And on another occasion she said: “My sisters, we have to render to God an account for so many lost souls: had we recommended them to God with fervour, perhaps they would not be damned.” Hence we read in her life that she did not allow an hour of the day to pass without praying for sinners. Oh, how many souls are sometimes converted, not so much by the sermons of priests as by the prayers of Religious! It was once revealed to a preacher that the fruit which he produced was not the effect of his sermons, but of the prayers of a lay-brother who assisted him at the pulpit. Be careful, also, to pray for priests, that they may labour with true zeal for the salvation of souls.

