
“Riga quod est aridum.”

God, who loves us and desires to see us happy, cries out and makes known to all: If any man thirst, let him come to me. I will give him the Holy Ghost Who will make him blessed in this life and in the next. _Riga quod est aridum!_ O my Jesus, I beseech Thee, give me the water of Thy love which will make me forget the earth, and live for Thee alone Who art the infinitely amiable One!

**I.**

Love is called a living fountain, fire, Charity. _Fons vivus, ignis, Charitas_. Our Blessed Redeemer said to the Samaritan woman: But he that shall drink of the water that I shall give him, shall not thirst for ever (John iv. 13). Love is the water which satisfies our thirst; for he that truly loves God with his whole heart, neither seeks nor desires anything else: because in God he finds every good. Hence, happy in possessing God. he frequently exclaims with joy: _My God and my All!_ Almighty God complains of many who seek for fleeting, miserable pleasures from creatures, and leave Him, Who is Infinite Goodness, and the Fountain of all joy: _They have forsaken me, the fountain of living water, and have digged to themselves cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water_-(Jer. ii.. 13) Meanwhile God, Who loves us and desires to see us happy, cries out and makes known to all: _If anyone thirst, let him come to me_-(John vii. 37). He who desires to be happy, let him come to Me, and I will bestow upon him the Holy Ghost, Who will make him blessed, both in this life and in the next.

_Domine, da mihi hanc aquam! Lord, give me of this water!-(_John iv. 15). O Jesus, with the Samaritan woman I beseech Thee, give me of this water of Thy love, which will make me forget the earth, and live only for Thee alone, Who art the infinitely amiable One. _Riga quod est aridum!_ My soul is a barren soil, which produces nothing but the weeds and thorns of sin. Oh, water it with Thy holy grace, that it may yield some fruit to Thy glory, before it leaves this world in death!

**II.**

He, then, that believes in Jesus Christ, and loves Him, shall be enriched with so many graces, that from his heart shall spring up fountains of holy virtues, which shall not only preserve his life, but also give life to others. And indeed this water is the Holy Ghost, the sustaining love which Jesus Christ promised to send from Heaven, after His Ascension: _Now this he said of the Spirit, which they should receive who believed in him: for as yet the Spirit was not given, because Jesus was not glorified_-(John vii. 39).

The key which opens the channels of this blessed water is holy prayer, which obtains all good things in virtue of the promise: Ask and you shall receive. We are weak, and blind, and poor, and miserable, but prayer will obtain for us strength, and light, and wealth, and happiness. Theodoret says: “Prayer, though, but one, can effect all things.” He who prays receives all he asks for. God desires to give us His graces, but He desires that we should pray for them.

O Fountain of living water, O sovereign Good, how often have I deserted Thee for the defiled waters of the earth, which have deprived me of Thy love! O that I had rather died than offend Thee! But for the future I will seek after nothing but Thee, my God. Succour me, and make me always faithful to Thee. Mary, my hope, keep me always under thy holy protection.

