
\"I am called the Mother of Mercy,\" said our Blessed Lady to St. Bridget, \"and truly God\'s mercy hath made me thus merciful.\" \"What, then,\" says St. Bernard, \"can ever flow from a source of compassion but compassion itself?\"

**I\.** St. Bernard, speaking of the great compassion of Mary, towards us poor creatures, says that \"she is the land overflowing with milk and honey promised by God.\" Hence St. Leo observes that \"the Blessed Virgin has so merciful a heart that she deserves not only to be called merciful, but to be styled *Mercy* itself.\" St. Bonaventure also, considering that Mary was made Mother of God on account of the miserable, and that to her is committed the charge of dispensing mercy; and considering, moreover, the tender care she takes of all, and that her compassion is so great that she seems to have no other desire than that of relieving the needy; says, that when he looks at her, he seems no longer to see the justice of God, but only the Divine mercy, of which Mary is full. \"O Lady, when I behold thee I can only discern mercy, for thou wast made Mother of God for the wretched, and then intrusted with their charge: thou art all solicitude for them; thou art walled in with mercy; thy only wish is to show it.\"

The compassion of Mary is indeed so great towards us that the Abbot Guerric says that \"her loving heart can never remain a moment without bringing forth its fruits of tenderness.\" \"And what,\" exclaims St. Bernard, \"can ever flow from a source of compassion but compassion itself?\"

Mary is called an olive-tree: *As a fair olive-tree in the plains* (Ecclus. xxiv. 19). For, as from the olive, oil (a symbol of mercy) alone is extracted, so from the hands of Mary graces and mercy alone proceed. When we go to this good Mother for the oil of her mercy, we cannot fear that she will deny it to us, as the wise virgins in the Gospel did to the foolish ones: *lest perhaps there be not enough for us and for you* (Matt. xxv. 9). Oh, no! for she is indeed rich in this oil of mercy, as St. Bonaventure assures us, \"Mary is filled with the oil of compassion.\" She is called by the Church not only a prudent Virgin, but most prudent, that we may understand, says Hugo of St. Victor, that she is so full of grace and compassion, that she can supply all, without losing any herself. \"Thou, O Blessed Virgin, art full of grace, and indeed so full, that the whole world may draw of this overflowing oil. For if the prudent virgins provided oil in vessels with their lamps, thou, O most prudent Virgin, hast borne an overflowing and inexhaustible vessel, from which, the oil of mercy streaming, thou replenishest the lamps of all.\"

**II\.** But why, I ask, is this beautiful olive-tree said to stand in the midst of the plains, and not rather in the midst of a garden, surrounded by walls and hedges? Hugo of St. Victor tells us that it is in the plains, \"that all sinners may see her, that all may go to her for refuge\"; that all may see her easily, and as easily have recourse to her, to obtain remedies for all their ills. This beautiful explanation is confirmed by St. Antoninus, who says: \"All can go to and gather the fruit of an olive-tree in the midst of a plain; and thus all, both just and sinners, can have recourse to Mary to obtain her mercy.\" He then adds: \"O how many sentences of condemnation has not this most Blessed Virgin revoked by her compassionate prayers, in favour of sinners who have had recourse to her?\" \"And what safer refuge,\" says the devout Thomas a Kempis, \"can we ever find than the compassionate heart of Mary? There the poor find a home, the infirm a remedy, the afflicted relief, the doubtful counsel, and the abandoned succour.\"

Wretched indeed should we be had we not this Mother of Mercy always attentive and solicitous to relieve us in our wants! *Where there is no woman, he mourneth that is in want* (Ecclus. xxxvi. 27), says the Holy Ghost. \"This woman,\" says St. John Damascene, \"is precisely the most Blessed Virgin Mary, and wherever this most holy woman is not, the sick man groans.\" And surely it cannot be otherwise, since all graces are dispensed at the prayers of Mary; and where this is wanting, there can be no hope of mercy, as our Lord gave St. Bridget to understand in these words: \"Unless the prayers of Mary interposed, there could be no hope of mercy.\"

O Mary, thou art clement with the miserable; compassionate towards those who pray to thee; sweet towards those who love thee; clement with the penitent; compassionate towards those who advance; and sweet to the perfect. Thou art clement in delivering us from chastisement, compassionate in bestowing graces, and sweet in giving thyself to those who seek thee!

