
Let us consider how Jesus Christ came forth from Heaven to meet His Mother. On first meeting her, and to console her, He said: *Arise! Make haste, my love, my dove, my beautiful one, and come, for winter is now past* (Cant. ii. 10, 11). Come, My dearest Mother, My pure and beautiful dove! Leave the valley of tears in which for My love, thou hast suffered so much! Thou shalt be crowned.

**I\.** Let us consider how Jesus Christ came forth from Heaven to meet His Mother. On first meeting her, and to console her, He said: *Arise, make haste, my love, my dove, my beautiful one, and come, for winter is now past* (Cant. ii. 10, 11). Come, My own dear Mother, My pure and beautiful dove; leave that valley of tears, in which, for My love, thou hast suffered so much. *Come from Libanus, my Spouse; come from Libanus, come: thou shalt be crowned* (Cant. iv. 8). Come, soul and body, to enjoy the recompense of thy holy life. If thy sufferings have been great on earth, far greater is the glory I have prepared for thee in Heaven. Enter, then, that kingdom, and take thy seat near me. Come to receive that crown which I will bestow upon thee as Queen of the Universe. Behold, Mary already leaves the earth, at which she looks with affection and compassion: with affection, remembering the many graces she had there received from her Lord; and with affection and compassion, because in it she leaves so many poor children surrounded with miseries and dangers. But see, Jesus offers her His hand, and the Blessed Mother already ascends; already she has passed beyond the clouds, beyond the spheres. Behold her already at the gates of Heaven. When monarchs make their solemn entry into the capital of their kingdom, they do not pass through the gates, for they are removed to make way for them on this occasion. Hence, when Jesus Christ entered Paradise, the Angels cried out: *Lift up your gates, O ye princes, and be ye lifted, up, O eternal gates; and the King of glory shall enter in* (Ps. xxiii, 7). Thus also, now that Mary goes to take possession of the Kingdom of Heaven, the Angels who accompany her cry out to those within: \"Lift up your gates, O ye princes, and be ye lifted up, O eternal gates; and the Queen of glory shall enter in.\"

**II\.** Behold, Mary already enters that blessed country. But on her entrance the celestial Spirits, seeing her so beautiful and glorious, ask the Angels without the gates, as Origen supposes it, with united voices of exultation: *Who is this that cometh up from the desert, flowing with delights, leaning upon her Beloved?* (Cant. viii. 5). And who can this creature so beautiful be, that comes from the desert of the earth — a place of thorns and tribulation? But this one comes pure and rich in virtue, leaning on her beloved Lord, Who is graciously pleased Himself to accompany her with so great honour. Who is she? The Angels accompanying her answer: \"She is the Mother of our King; she is our Queen, and the Blessed one among women; full of grace, the Saint of Saints, the beloved of God, the Immaculate one, the dove, the fairest of all creatures.\" Then all the blessed Spirits begin to bless and praise her; singing with far more reason than the Hebrews did to Judith: *Thou art the glory of Jerusalem; thou art the joy of Israel; thou art the honour of our people* (Judith xv. 10). Ah, our Lady and our Queen, thou, then, art the glory of Paradise, the joy of our country; thou art the honour of us all: be thou ever welcome, be thou ever blessed! Behold thy kingdom; behold us also, who are thy servants, ever ready to obey thy commands!

