
In this mortal life, *meat* is that which preserves our life. Our Divine Lord said it was His *meat* to do the will of His Father. *Life in his will* (Ps. xxix. 6). Our life depends upon our doing the Divine will; he that does it not, is dead.

**I\.** *My meat is to do the will of him that sent me* (Jo. iv. 34). In this mortal life, *meat* is that which preserves our life. Our Divine Lord said it was His *meat* to do the will of His Father. *Life in his will* (Ps. xxix. 6). Our life depends upon our doing the Divine will; he that does it not, is dead.

The Wise Man says: *They that are faithful in love shall rest in him* (Wis. iii. 9). They who have little love for God will desire that God should agree with them; that He should conform to their pleasure and do whatever they desire. But they who truly love God unite their wills to His will and are satisfied with everything that God does with them. With everything that comes, with every adversity, sickness, dishonour, weariness, loss of property and friends, they have ever on their lips and in their hearts these words: *Thy will be done!*

God desires only that which is best for us, that is our sanctification. Let us take care, therefore, to unite our will ever to the will of God and thus we shall be able to convince and calm our minds, recollecting that everything that God does is the best thing that can befall us. Whoever neglects this will never find true peace. All the perfection that can be attained in this world, which is a place of purification, and consequently a place of pains and troubles, consists in suffering patiently those things that are opposed to our self-love; and, in order to suffer with patience, there is no more efficacious means than a willingness to suffer, in order to do the will of God. *Submit thyself, then, to him, and be at peace* (Job. xxii. 21). He that agrees with the Divine will in everything is always at peace, and nothing that happens to him can make him unhappy. *Whatsoever shall befall the just man, it shall not make him sad* (Pro. xii. 21). But why is the just man never unhappy under any circumstances? Because he knows well that whatever happens in the world, happens through the will of God.

**II\.** The Divine will, so to say, draws out all the thorns and bitterness of the tribulations that come upon us in this world. The hymn which speaks of the Divine will thus sings: \"Thou changest crosses into joys: Thou makest even death seem sweet; he that can unite himself to Thee knows neither cross nor fear. Oh, how worthy art Thou of love, O will of God!\"

Hear the excellent counsel of St. Peter, in order to find a perfect peace in the midst of the toils of this present life: *Casting all your care upon Him; for he hath care for you* (1 Peter, v. 7). And if it is God Who thus gives thought for our good, why should we weary ourselves with so many anxieties, as if our happiness depended on our own cares, and not rather abandon ourselves into the hands of God, upon Whom all depends? *Cast thy care upon the Lord*, says David, *and he shall sustain thee* (Ps. liv. 23). Let us strive to obey God in everything He commands and advises, and then let us leave to Him the care of our salvation, and He will take care to give us all the means that are necessary, in order that we may be saved: *Thy life shall be saved, because thou hast had confidence in me* (Jer. xxxix. 18). Whosoever places his whole confidence in God is sure of eternal salvation.

In a word, whoever does the will of God enters into Paradise; and he that does it not, shall not be saved. Some people trust their eternal salvation to certain devotions, or to certain outward works of piety, and yet bow not to God\'s will. But Jesus Christ says: *Not every one that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father, he shall enter into the kingdom of heaven* (Matt. vii. 21).

Thus, if we desire to be saved, and to acquire a perfect union with God, let us take care to be ever offering up the prayer of David: *Teach me, O Lord, to do thy will* (Ps. cxlii. 10). And for this purpose, let us strip ourselves of our own will, and give it wholly to God, without reserve. When we give to God our property in alms, our food in fastings, our blood in scourgings, we give him our possessions; but when we give Him our will, we give Him our whole selves; wherefore he that gives to God his entire will is able to say: Lord, having given Thee all my will, I have nothing more to give Thee. The sacrifice of our own will is the most acceptable sacrifice we can make to God; and God pours forth His graces abundantly upon him who makes it.

