
The Name of Jesus was given to the Incarnate Word, not by men, but by God Himself. *And Thou shalt call his name Jesus.* It is the Name of our Saviour, a Name of Gladness, a Name of Hope, a Name of Love. Thy Name, then, O Jesus, will always be my defence, my comfort, a fire to keep me always burning with Thy love.

**I\.**

Consider that the Holy Name of Jesus is not a Name invented by man, but it comes from God, Who wished it to be made known by the Archangel Gabriel, as St. Luke testifies: *His name was called Jesus... by the angel* (Luke ii. 21). St. Bernard also says that this Name is not a simple figure of things, or a shadow without reality. Jesus is a Name that expresses perfectly the hypostatic union of the Divine nature and the human nature. The world could not have been saved by God, for God could not suffer, nor by a mere man, because man is limited and finite. This is the reason why the Holy Name *Jesus*, which signifies the same as *Saviour*, as the Angel declares, has been given to the Son of God, made Man through Mary, to show that it was both as God and Man He accomplished the redemption of mankind by delivering men from the slavery of sin. In short, *Jesus* is a Name that comprises Infinity, Eternity, Immensity, Wisdom, Justice, Mercy, and all the adorable Perfections of God. What happiness for us to be reconciled with the Eternal Father through the merits of this divine Mediator Who of His infinite goodness paid our debt in His precious Blood! Adorable Jesus! if Thou hadst sacrificed Thyself to deliver Thy people from the hands of their enemies in order to acquire an eternal Name, it would be but fair that this Name should surpass and eclipse every other name, even that of the Seraphim, as St. Paul says: *Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath inherited a more excellent name than they* (Heb. i. 4). And if the Eternal Father has wished that this Name should be that of His Son, mayest Thou grant that, having experienced on earth its happy effects, we may arrive at the complete happiness of Heaven to praise Thee and to bless Thee for all eternity.

**II\.**

The Name of Jesus is a Name of Gladness, a Name of Hope, a Name of Love. It is a Name of Gladness, because if the remembrance of past transgressions afflicts us, this Name comforts us in the remembrance that the Son of God became Man for this purpose-to make Himself our Saviour. In fact, as soon as the Name of Jesus passes from the heart to the tongue, by the light of this divine Name darkness is dispersed, the mind is calmed, the heart is strengthened, the faculties brighten up, and everything returns to life. There is no name in the world equal to the Name of Jesus in sweetness. \"Nothing is sweeter to chant,\" says St. Bernard, \"nothing more agreeable to hear, nothing more charming to think of, than the Name of Jesus, the Son of God.\"

Oh, how happy shall we be if in all our trials, in all occasions of sorrow, we take care to invoke the glorious Name of Jesus, and while invoking it with our lips to consecrate our hearts to Jesus !

It is a Name of Hope, because he that prays to the Eternal Father in the Name of Jesus may hope for every good he asks for. *If you ask the Father anything in my name he will give it to you* (Jo. xvi. 23).

It is a Name of Love. It is a sign that represents to us how much God has done for the love of us. The Name of Jesus brings to our remembrance all the sufferings which Jesus endured for us in life and in death. Therefore a devout writer exclaims: \"O Jesus, how much it cost Thee to be *Jesus*-that is, my *Saviour*!\"

O sweet Jesus, our Love and our Hope! Do Thou write Thy Name on my poor heart and on my tongue, in order that when I am tempted to sin, I may resist by invoking Thee; so that if I am tempted to despair I may trust in Thy merits; and that if I feel myself tepid in loving Thee, Thy Name may inflame my heart at the recollection of how much Thou hast loved me. Thy Name, then, will always be my defence, my comfort, and the fire that shall always keep me inflamed with Thy love. Make me, therefore, always to call Thee my Jesus, and to live and die with Thy Holy Name on my lips, saying even with my last breath: \"I love Thee, my Jesus; my Jesus, I love Thee.\" O Mary, my Queen, make me when I am dying invoke thee continually, together with thy Son Jesus.

