
What joy will he experience at the Judgment when he hears these welcome words: *Well done, thou good and faithful servant! Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord!* But it is written: *What things a man shall sow, those also shall he reap*. Let us weigh well what things we have hitherto been sowing, and let us do now what we shall then wish to have done.

**I\.**

What great consolation he will enjoy at the Judgment hour who, for the love of Jesus Christ, has been detached from all worldly things; who has loved contempt, and mortified the body; who, in a word has loved only God!

What joy will he experience in hearing these welcome words: *Well done, thou good and faithful servant! Enter thou into the joy of thy Lord!* Be glad and rejoice, for now thou art saved, and there is no longer any fear of being lost.

On the contrary, the soul which leaves this life in a state of sin, will, even before Jesus condemns it, condemn itself, and declare itself deserving of hell.

O Mary, my powerful advocate, pray to Jesus for me. Help me, now that thou art able to help me. For then thou wouldst have to see me perish and not be able to assist me.

*What things a man shall sow, those also shall he reap* (Gal. vi. 8). Let us consider what things we have hitherto been sowing, and let us do now what we shall then wish to have done.

If now, within an hour, we had to stand for judgment, how much should we be willing to give to purchase another year? And how are we going to employ the years which remain for us?

**II\.**

The Abbot Agatho, after long years of penance, when he thought of Judgment, would say: \"What will become of me when I shall be judged?\" And holy Job exclaimed: *What shall I do when God shall rise to judge? And when he shall examine, what shall I answer him?* (Job. xxxi. 14). And what shall we answer when Jesus Christ calls us to account for the graces He has bestowed upon us, and for the bad use we have made of them?

*O my God, deliver not up to beasts the souls that confess to thee* (Ps. lxxiii. 19). I do not deserve pardon, but Thou wouldst not have me to lose confidence in Thy mercy. Save me, O Lord, and raise me up from the mire of my miseries. I desire to amend my life, do Thou assist me.

The cause to be decided at the hour of our death will be one that will involve eternal happiness or eternal misery. Hence we should be most careful in using our utmost endeavours to secure success. Each one, considering this, should say to himself: Yes, this is true. Why, therefore, do I not leave all things to give myself entirely to God? *Seek ye the Lord, while he may be found* (Is. lv. 6). The sinner who thinks to find God at the Judgment after death will not find Him. But in life he who seeks Him, finds Him.

O Jesus, if hitherto I have despised Thy love, I now seek for nothing but to love Thee and to be loved by Thee. Grant that I may find Thee, O God of my soul!

