
*Patience hath a perfect work*. Patience is a perfect sacrifice which we offer to God; because in suffering tribulations and contradictions we are but accepting from God\'s hands the cross He sends us. All our good, indeed, consists in bearing crosses with patience.

**I\.**

*Patience hath a perfect work* (James i. 4). Patience is a perfect sacrifice that we offer to God; because in suffering tribulations and contradictions we are but accepting from God\'s hands the cross He sends us. *A patient man is better than the valiant* (Prov. xvi. 32). He who suffers with patience is better than a valiant man. Some are resolute and courageous in promoting and supporting a pious undertaking, but are not patient in bearing adversity. It would be better for them to be valiant in patience than in undertaking good works. This earth is a place of merit, and therefore it is not a place of repose, but of toils and pains; for merit is acquired not by rest but by suffering. All those who live here below, whether saints or sinners, must suffer. Some are in want of this, others of that; some have nobility, but are poor; others abound in riches, but want nobility; others enjoy nobility and wealth but are poor in health. In a word, all, even sovereigns, have occasion to suffer; because sovereigns are the most exalted of mortals their cares and troubles are the most harassing and perplexing.

All our good, then, consists in bearing crosses with patience. Hence the Holy Ghost admonishes us not to become like to senseless beasts that break out into a rage when they are unable to indulge their appetites. *Do not become like the horse and the mule who have not understanding* (Ps. xxxi. 9). What other advantage than to double our misfortunes can we ever derive from giving way to impatience in contradictions? The good thief and the bad thief died on the cross, both suffering the same pains; but because one embraced them with patience he was saved, and the other bore them with impatience he was damned. St. Augustine says that the same affliction sends the just to glory because they accept it with peace, and the wicked to fire because they submit to it with impatience.

**II\.**

It often happens that a person who flies from a cross that God sends him meets with another far more afflicting. *They*, says Job, *that fear the hoar frost, the snow shall fall upon them* (Job vi. 16). They who shun the hoar-frost shall he covered with snow. Such a one may say: Give me any other office, but take from me the one that I hold. But he will suffer much more in the second office than in the first, and with little or no merit. Be careful not to imitate such. Embrace the fatigue and tribulation that God sends you: for you will thus acquire greater merit, and in truth have less to suffer: you will at least suffer with peace, knowing that your sufferings come not from self-will, but from the will of God. Let us be persuaded of the truth of what St. Augustine says, that the whole life of a Christian must be a continual cross. The life of those who wish to become saints must in a special manner be a continued series of crosses. St. Gregory Nazianzen says that these noble souls place their riches in poverty, their glory in contempt, and their delights in the voluntary privation of earthly pleasures. Hence St. John Climacus asks: Who is truly religious? He answers: He that offers continual violence to himself. And when shall this violence cease? When life shall have an end, answers St. Prosper. Then shall the battle cease when the conquest of the eternal kingdom shall be obtained. If you remember to have hitherto offended God, and if you desire to be saved, you should be consoled when you see that God sends you an occasion of suffering. St. John Chrysostom writes: \"Sin is an ulcer, and chastisement a healing iron: therefore the sinner who is left unpunished is most miserable.\" Sin is an abscess on the soul: if tribulations do not come to extract the putrid humour the soul is lost. Miserable the sinner who is not punished after his sin in this life.

