
St. Bernard exhorts even the despairing not to despair, and full of joy and tenderness towards his most dear Mother Mary, he lovingly exclaims: \"And, who, O Lady, can be without confidence in thee, seeing that thou dost assist even those who are in despair! Let him, then, who is without hope, hope in thee!\"

**I\.**

It is related in the Sacred Scriptures that Booz allowed Ruth *to gather the ears of corn, after the reapers* (Ruth ii. 3). St. Bonaventure says \"that as Ruth found favour with Booz, so has Mary found favour with our Lord, and is also allowed to gather the ears of corn after the reapers. The reapers followed by Mary are all evangelical labourers, missionaries, preachers, and confessors, who are constantly reaping souls for God. But there are some hardened and rebellious souls which are abandoned even by these. To Mary alone it is granted to save them by her powerful intercession.\" Truly unfortunate are they if they do not allow themselves to be gathered, even by this sweet Lady. They will indeed be most certainly lost and accursed. But, on the other hand, blessed is he who has recourse to this good Mother. \"There is not in the world,\" says the devout Blasius, \"a sinner, however rebellious and wicked, who is despised or rejected by Mary; she can, she has the desire, and she knows how to reconcile him to her most beloved Son, if only he will seek her assistance.\"

O most pure Virgin Mary, I venerate thy most holy heart, which was the delight and resting-place of God, thy heart, overflowing with humility, purity, and Divine love. I, an unhappy sinner, approach thee with a heart all loathsome and wounded. O compassionate Mother, disdain me not on this account; let such a sight rather move thee to greater tenderness, and excite thee to help me. Do not wait to find virtues or merit in me before assisting me. I am lost, and the only thing I merit is hell. See only my confidence in thee and the determination I have to amend. Consider all that Jesus has done and suffered for me, and then abandon me if thou canst. I offer thee all the pains of His life; the cold He endured in the stable; His journey into Egypt; the Blood He shed; the poverty, sweat, sorrows, and death He endured for me; and this in thy presence. For the love of Jesus, take charge of my salvation.

**II\.**

With reason, O my most sweet Queen, did St. John Damascene salute and call thee the \"Hope of those who are in despair.\" With reason did St. Laurence Justinian call thee \"the Hope of malefactors,\" and another ancient writer \"the only Hope of Sinners.\" St. Ephrem calls her \"the safe harbour for all sailing on the sea of the world.\" This last-named Saint also calls her \"the consolation of those who are to be condemned.\" With reason, finally does St. Bernard exhort even the despairing not to despair; and, full of joy and tenderness towards his most dear Mother, he lovingly exclaims: \"And who, O Lady, can be without confidence in thee, since thou assistest even those who are in despair? And I doubt not, that whenever we have recourse to thee, we shall obtain all that we desire. Let him, then, who is without hope, hope in thee.\" St. Antoninus relates that there was a sinner who was at enmity with God, and who had a vision in which he found himself before the dread tribunal; the devil accused him, and Mary defended him. The enemy produced the catalogue of his sins; it was thrown into the scales of Divine Justice, and weighed far more than all his good works. But then his great advocate, extending her sweet hand, placed it on the balance, and so caused it to turn in favour of her client; giving him thereby to understand that she would obtain his pardon if he changed his life; and this he did after the vision, and was entirely converted.

Ah, my Mother, I will not and cannot fear that thou wilt reject me, a sinner, now that I have recourse to thee and ask thy help. Did I fear this, I should be offering an outrage to thy mercy, which goes in quest of the wretched, in order to help them. O Lady, deny not thy compassion to one to whom Jesus has not denied His Blood. But the merits of this Blood will not be applied to me unless thou recommendest me to God. Through thee do I hope for salvation. I ask not for riches, honours, or earthly goods. I seek only the grace of God, love towards Thy Son, the accomplishment of His will, and His heavenly kingdom, that I may love Him eternally. Is it possible that thou wilt not hear me? No; for already thou hast granted my prayer, as I hope; already thou prayest for me; already thou obtainest me the graces I ask; already thou takest me under thy protection. My Mother, abandon me not. Never, never cease to pray for me, until thou seest me safe in Heaven at thy feet, blessing and thanking thee forever. Amen.

