
**I\.**

*If*, says the Lord, *thou wilt separate the precious from the vile, thou shalt be as my mouth* (Jer. xv. 19). They who know how to distinguish what is precious from what is vile, are like God \"Who knows how to refuse the evil and to choose the good.\" Let us consider how great a good it is to be in the grace of God. Men do not understand the value of divine grace. *Man knoweth not the price thereof* (Job xxxviii. 13). Hence they exchange it for vanity, for a little earth, or for a beastly pleasure! But it is an infinite treasure which makes us worthy of the friendship of God. *For*, says the Wise Man, *she is an infinite treasure to men, which they that use become the friends of God* (Wis. vii. 14). Hence a soul in grace is the friend of God. The Gentiles, who were deprived of the light of Faith, deemed it impossible for a creature to attain to the friendship of God; and they, guided only by the light of nature, could scarcely think otherwise. But God has declared in several places in the Holy Scriptures, that by means of grace we become His friends if we observe His Law. *You are my friends if you do the things that I command you. I will not now call you servants... but I have called you friends* (Jo. xv. 14, 15). Hence, St. Gregory exclaims: \"O Goodness of God! We do not deserve to be called even servants and He condescends to call us friends!\"

How fortunate would the man esteem himself who should have a king for his friend! In a vassal it would be temerity to presume to seek the friendship of his sovereign, but it is not temerity in a soul to aspire to the friendship of its God. The most men can expect to gain in the service of an emperor is to become his friends; and should they succeed in gaining his friendship, they will expose their eternal salvation to greater risk. It is with difficulty I can ever become the friend of Caesar, but if I wish, I am this moment the friend of God.

Whosoever is in the state of grace is the friend of God. He also becomes the child of God: *You are gods and the sons of the Most High* (Ps. lxxxi. 6). This is the great gift which we have received from the divine love through Jesus Christ. *Behold*, says St. John, *what manner of charity the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called, and should be, the sons of God* (1 Jo. iii. 1). Moreover, the soul in the state of grace is the spouse of God. *I will espouse thee to me in faith* (Osee, ii. 20). Lastly, the soul in grace is the temple of the Holy Ghost. Sister Mary d\'Oignies saw a devil go out from an infant who was receiving Baptism, and the Holy Ghost enter with a multitude of Angels.

Therefore, O my God, when my soul had the happiness of being in grace, it was Thy friend, Thy child, Thy spouse, and Thy temple; but by committing sin, it lost all and became Thy enemy and the slave of hell. But I thank Thee, O my God, for giving me time to recover Thy grace. I am sorry above all things for having offended Thee, O infinite Goodness, and I love Thee above all things. Ah! receive me again into Thy friendship. For Thy Mercy\'s sake do not reject me. I know that I deserve to be banished from Thy face, but by the Sacrifice which He offered on Calvary, Jesus Christ has merited for me mercy and pardon. *And lead us not into temptation*. Ah! do not permit my enemies to tempt me so that I may be conquered. *But deliver us from evil*. Deliver me from hell; but deliver me first from sin, which alone can lead me to hell. O Mary, pray for me and preserve me from the great misfortune of ever seeing myself in sin and deprived of the grace of thy God and mine.

**II\.**

St. Thomas of Aquinas says that the gift of God\'s grace surpasses all created nature since it is a participation of the divine nature. And St. Peter said the same: *that by these ye may be made partakers of the divine nature* (2 Pet. i. 4). Such great things Jesus Christ merited for us by His Passion: He has even communicated to us the same splendour that He received from the Father. *And the glory which thou hast given to me, I have given to them* (John xvii. 22). In fine, a soul in the state of grace is one with God. *He*, says St. Paul, *that is joined to the Lord is one spirit* (Cor. vi. 17). The Redeemer has said that in a soul that loves God, the Three Persons of the Most Holy Trinity dwell. *If any one love me, my Father will love him, and we will come to him, and we will make our abode with him* (John xiv. 23).

So great is the beauty of a soul in the state of grace, that God Himself extols it. *How beautiful art thou! How beautiful art thou!* (Cant. iv. 1). The Lord appears never to take His eyes off the soul that loves Him, nor to close His ears to its petitions. *The eyes of the Lord are upon the just: and his ears unto their prayers* (Ps. xxxiii. 16). St. Bridget used to say that one could not behold the beauty of a soul in the grace of God and not die for very joy. And St. Catherine of Sienna seeing a soul in the state of grace, said that she would willingly have given her life to prevent that soul from losing such beauty. Hence she kissed the ground on which priests walked, because through them souls recover the grace of God.

How many treasures of merits can a soul in the state of grace acquire? Each moment it can merit an eternity of glory. St. Thomas teaches that every act of love merits for the soul eternal life. Why then should we envy the great ones of the earth? If we are in the grace of God, we can constantly acquire far more greatness in Heaven. A certain Lay-Brother of the Society of Jesus, appeared after death, and said that he and Philip the Second of Spain were in the enjoyment of glory; but that his glory in Heaven was as far superior to that of Philip, as that monarch was raised above him on this earth. Moreover, he alone who has experienced it can conceive the peace which a soul in the grace of God enjoys even in this life. *O taste and see that the Lord is sweet* (Ps. xxxiii. 9). The words of the Lord cannot fail. *Much peace have they that love thy law* (Ps. cxviii. 165). The peace of a soul united with God, surpasses all the pleasures of the senses and the world. *The peace of God which surpasseth all understanding* (Phil. iv. 7).

O my Jesus, Thou art the good Shepherd, Who allowed Thyself to be slaughtered in order to give life to Thy sheep. When I fled away from Thee, Thou didst not cease to follow and seek after me. Thou receivest me now that I seek Thee and cast myself with a penitent heart at Thy feet. Give me Thy grace which I have miserably lost through my own fault. I am sorry for it with my whole heart; I would wish to die of sorrow at the thought of having so often turned my back on Thee. Pardon me through the merits of the painful death which Thou didst suffer for me on the Cross. Bind me with the sweet chains of Thy love, and do not permit me ever more to fly away from Thee. Since I have merited the eternal torments of hell, give me strength to bear with patience all the crosses which Thou sendest me. And since I have deserved to be for eternity under the feet of the devils, make me to embrace with love all the contempt and insults which I shall receive from men. Finally, make me obedient to all Thy holy inspirations, and give me grace to conquer all human respect for the love of Thee. I am resolved henceforward to serve Thee only: let others say and do what they please, I will serve Thee alone, O my most amiable God! Thee only do I wish to please. But give me Thy grace without which I can do nothing. I love Thee, O my Jesus, with my whole heart, and I trust in Thy Blood. Mary, my hope, assist me by thy prayers. I glory in being thy servant, and thou dost glory in saving sinners who have recourse to thee. Come to my relief and save me.

