(Second Dolour)

As the stag, wounded by an arrow, carries the pain with him wherever he goes, because he carries with him the arrow which has wounded him, so did the divine Mother, after the sad Prophecy of St. Simeon, as we have already seen, always carry her sorrow with her in the continual remembrance of the Passion of her Son. Hailgrino, explaining this passage of the Canticles: *The hairs of thy head, as the purple of the king* (Cant. vii. 5) — says that these purple hairs were Mary\'s continual thoughts of the Passion of Jesus, which kept the Blood which was one day to flow from His wounds always before her eyes: \"Thy mind, O Mary, and thy thoughts, steeped in the Blood of our Lord\'s Passion, were always filled with sorrow, as if they actually beheld the Blood flowing from His wounds.\" Thus her Son Himself was that arrow in the heart of Mary; and the more amiable He appeared to her, so much the more deeply did the thought of losing Him by so cruel a death wound her heart.

Now Herod having heard that the expected Messias was born, foolishly feared that He would deprive him of his kingdom. Hence St. Fulgentius, reproving him for his folly, thus addresses him: \"Why art thou troubled, O Herod? This King Who is born comes not to conquer by the sword, but to subjugate men wonderfully by His death.\" The impious Herod, therefore, waited to hear from the holy Magi where the King was born, that he might take His life; but finding himself deceived, he ordered all the infants found in the neighbourhood of Bethlehem to be put to death. Then it was that the Angel appeared in a dream to St. Joseph, and commanded him to *arise, and take the Child and his mother, and fly into Egypt* (Matt. ii. 13). According to Gerson, St. Joseph immediately, on that very night, made the order known to Mary; and taking the Infant Jesus, they set out on their journey, as it is sufficiently evident from the Gospel itself: *Who arose and took the Child and his mother, by night, and retired into Egypt* (Ibid. ii. 14).

O God, says Blessed Albert the Great, in the name of Mary, \"must He then fly from men Who came to save men!\" Then the afflicted Mother knew that already the Prophecy of Simeon concerning her Son began to be verified: *He is set for a sign that shall be contradicted* (Luke ii. 34). Seeing that He was no sooner born than He was persecuted unto death, what anguish, writes St. John Chrysostom, must the intimation of that cruel exile of herself and her Son have caused in her heart: \"Flee from thy friends to strangers, from God\'s temple to the temples of devils. What greater tribulation than that a new-born child, hanging on its mother\'s neck, and she, too, in poverty, should be forced to fly?\"

Any one can imagine what Mary must have suffered on this journey. The distance to Egypt was great. Most authors agree that it was three hundred miles, so that it was a journey of upwards of thirty days. The road was, according to St. Bonaventure\'s description of it, \"rough, unknown, and little frequented.\" It was in the Winter season; so that they had to travel in snow, rain, and wind, over rough and dirty roads. Mary was then but fifteen years of age — a delicate young maiden, unaccustomed to such journeys. They had no one to attend upon them. St. Peter Chrysologus says: \"Joseph and Mary have no servants; they were themselves both masters and servants.\" O God, what a touching sight must it have been to behold that tender Virgin, with her new-born Babe in her arms, wandering through the world! \"But how,\" asks St Bonaventure, \"did they obtain their food? Where did they repose at night? How were they lodged?\" What can they have eaten but a piece of hard bread, either brought by St. Joseph, or begged as an alms? Where can they have slept on such a road unless on the sand or under a tree in a wood, exposed to the cold and the dangers of robbers and wild beasts, with which Egypt abounded? Ah, had anyone met these three greatest Personages in the world, for what could he have taken them but for poor wandering beggars?

They resided in Egypt, according to Brocard and Jansenius, in a district called Maturea; though St. Anselm says that they lived in the city of Heliopolis, or at Memphis, now called Cairo. Here let us consider the great poverty they must have suffered during the seven years which, according to St. Antoninus, St. Thomas, and others, they spent in Egypt. They were foreigners, unknown, without revenue, money, or relatives, barely able to support themselves by their humble efforts. \"As they were destitute,\" says St. Basil, \"it is evident that they must have laboured much to provide themselves with the necessaries of life.\" Landolph of Saxony has moreover written, and let this be a consolation for the poor, that \"Mary lived there in the midst of such poverty that at times she had not even a little bread to give to her Son, when, urged by hunger, He asked for it.\"

The sight, then, of Jesus and Mary wandering as fugitives through the world, teaches us that we also must live as pilgrims here below; detached from the goods which this world offers us, and which we must soon leave to enter eternity: *We have not here a lasting city, but seek one that is to come* (Heb. xiii. 14). To which St. Augustine adds: \"Thou art a guest: thou givest a look, and passest on.\" It also teaches us to embrace crosses, for without them we cannot live in this world. Blessed Veronica de Binasco, an Augustinian nun, was carried in spirit to accompany Mary with the Infant Jesus on their journey into Egypt; and after it the divine Mother said: \"Daughter, thou hast seen with how much difficulty we have reached this country. Now learn that no one receives graces without suffering.\" Whoever wishes to lighten the sufferings of this life must go in company with Jesus and Mary: *Take the Child and his mother*. All sufferings become light, and even sweet and desirable to him who by his love bears this Son and this Mother in his heart. Let us, then, love them; let us console Mary by welcoming in our hearts her Son, Whom men even now continue to persecute by their sins.

The most holy Virgin one day appeared to Blessed Colette, a Franciscan nun, and showed her the Infant Jesus torn to pieces, and said: \"Thus it is that sinners continually treat my Son, renewing His death and my sorrows. My daughter, pray for them, that they may be converted.\" To this we may add another vision vouchsafed the Venerable Sister Joanna of Jesus and Mary, also a Franciscan nun. She was one day meditating on the Infant Jesus persecuted by Herod, when she heard a great noise, as of armed men pursuing some one; and immediately she saw before her a most beautiful Child, Who, all out of breath and running, exclaimed: \"O my Joanna, help Me, conceal Me! I am Jesus of Nazareth; I am flying from sinners, who wish to kill Me and persecute Me as Herod did. Do thou save Me.\"

Thus, O Mary, even after thy Son has died by the hands of men who persecuted Him unto death, ungrateful sinners have not yet ceased persecuting Him by their sins, and continue to afflict Thee, O sorrowful Mother! And I, O my God, also have been one of these. Ah, my most sweet Mother, obtain me tears to weep over such ingratitude. By the sufferings thou didst endure in that journey to Egypt, assist me in the journey which I am now making to eternity; that I may at length be united to thee in loving my persecuted Saviour in the Kingdom of the Blessed. Amen.

