
12\. — SS. PHILEAS, BISHOP OF THMUIS, AND PHILOROMUS, TRIBUNE

(February 4)

Among the many Martyrs of Egypt and Thebais Saints Phileas and Philoromus attract particular attention on account of their exalted rank and the high estimation in which, according to Eusebius, they were held in their own country. They shed their blood for the Faith at Alexandria, between the years 306 and 312.

Phileas had discharged some of the highest offices of state in the city of Thmuis, in Egypt. He was a pagan by birth, was married, and had chidren who were still pagans when the Saint laid down his life for Christ. He was somewhat advanced in life when he was converted, but the Lord filled him with such virtue, that he deserved to be appointed bishop of his native place.\* He was arrested during the persecution and was conducted to prison in Alexandria.

\*In the primitive times in which the Church was composed only of converts, it was not unusual to see married men raised to the dignity of the priesthood and even to that of the episcopate: but these were then obliged to live in perpetual continence. The ministers of the altar are consecrated to God, and can no longer belong to any one except to God alone. — ED.

We have a letter written by him to his flock, while he was in prison for the Faith and about to consummate his Martyrdom, which shows his holy zeal and pastoral solicitude. He there encourages the faithful to suffer every torture for Jesus Christ rather than renounce the Faith; adducing the examples of so many saintly heroes who, having the eyes of their souls fixed on God, went joyfully to encounter death, in the full confidence that God would comfort His servants in the trial that would win for them eternal life. He then exhorts them to confide in the merits of Jesus Christ, and to keep continually before their eyes His Passion and Death, as well as the eternal rewards Christ promises to those who will be constant in confessing Him before men.

A short time after the writing of this letter the Martyrs were brought before Culcian, the governor of Egypt, who exhorted them to have pity upon themselves, their wives and children, who, together with many relatives and friends in Alexandria, had come to dissuade them. But all their arts were incapable of shaking the constancy of the Martyrs. Phileas, standing upon the platform and being told by the governor to enter into himself and be wise, answered: \"I have never lost my judgment.\" Culcian: \"Then sacrifice to the gods.\" Phileas: \"I sacrifice to only One God, not to many.\"

\"Thy conscience,\" said the governor, \"should make thee sacrifice for thy wife and children.\" Phileas answered: \"Conscience obliges me to prefer God to all things; since the Scripture saith that thou shalt love thy God Who created thee above all things.\" \"Which God?\" said Culcian. The Saint stretching out his hand to Heaven, said: \"That God Who created Heaven and earth, and endureth forever.\" Culcian asked him: \"Was Christ God?\" The Saint replied: \"Yes, truly, for He hath raised the dead to life, and worked many other miracles.\" \"But how!\" exclaimed the governor; \"Was a God, then, crucified?\" \"Yes,\" replied Phileas; \"He was crucified for our salvation, for which He willingly suffered ignominy and death; all His sufferings were foretold in the Holy Scriptures. If any be desirous of further information, let them come forward and they shall see the truth!\"

The Saint then told the governor that he was anxious for him to execute his orders. \"Then,\" said Culcian, \"thou art anxious to die without reason.\" \"Not without reason,\" said Phileas, \"but for God and for the truth.\" \"I would wish,\" said the governor, \"to save thee for thy brother\'s sake.\"\* But Phileas replied: \"I beseech thee to execute that which hath been commanded thee.\" Culcian said: \"If I knew thee to be poor, I would not desire to save thee; but thou art possessed of great wealth, and canst support many; sacrifice, therefore and live.\" Phileas answered: \"I will not sacrifice.\" Culcian: \"Dost thou not see thy wife, how piteously she looks upon thee?\" Phileas: \"Jesus Christ Whom I serve, is our Saviour; as He has called me; He can also call her to the inheritance of His glory.\"

\*This brother, Alban Butler says, was one of the judges. — ED.

The governor here offered him time to consider; but the holy bishop said: \"I have given all these points sufficient consideration and am determined to suffer for Christ.\" Hereupon his relatives cast themselves at his feet, and besought him to have compassion upon his wife and children; but the Saint, raising his eyes to God, declared that he should not think of any relatives other than the Saints in Heaven.

Among the persons of distinction present at this spectacle was Philoromus, a military tribune, who held a very high office in the administration of justice. Having listened to the wailings of the bishop\'s relatives and the exhortations of the governor, he raised his voice and exclaimed: \"Why do you vainly endeavour to shake his constancy? Why do you fatigue yourselves uselessly with one whom you see faithful to his God? Do you not perceive that your entreaties and your tears are of no avail? Tears shed from human motives cannot move the soul of a Christian who has God before his eyes.\" The entire multitude, enraged at these words of Philoromus, cried out that he should be condemned to the same death as Phileas; whereupon the governor commanded that both should be beheaded.

As the entire crowd were proceeding with the Martyrs to the place of execution, the bishop\'s brother said with a loud voice that Phileas had demanded an appeal. Culcian instantly called them back; but Phileas said: \"I have not demanded any appeal. Give no ear to this wretched man. I am much beholden to the judges who have made me a co-heir with Jesus Christ.\"

Having said this he moved forward to the place of execution, where, having arrived together with his companion, he raised his voice and spoke to the Christians: \"My dear children, those of you that seek God in truth should be careful to abstain from sin, since the enemy goeth about seeking whom he may devour. As yet we had not suffered. We now commence to suffer, and to be truly disciples of Jesus Christ. Be ye attentive to the observance of His Commandments, and continually invoke the Creator of all things, to Whom be glory forever!\" At the termination of this exhortation both Martyrs were beheaded. In this manner did these two heroes consummate their sacrifice.

