
13\. — ST. AGATHA, VIRGIN

(February 5)

This holy virgin and Martyr is held in great veneration by the Greek as well as the Latin Church; and although her original Acts have not been preserved, many well-authenticated facts concerning her Martyrdom are found in the Bollandists, Surius, and others. She was a native of Sicily, and descended from a noble and opulent family. These circumstances, added to her extraordinary beauty, inflamed Quintianus, a man of consular dignity, with such love of her that he resolved to compel her to become his wife. The edicts of the Emperor Decius against the Christians having been published, he ordered Agatha to be arrested as a Christian, and conducted to Catania where he then resided.

The holy virgin having heard the proclamation against the Christians, retired to a solitary place in order to avoid the snares of Quintianus, concerning which she had received some intimation. The emissaries of the governor, however, discovered her place of concealment, and after having been arrested, she prayed in the following manner: \"O Jesus Christ, Lord of all things, Thou seest my heart, and knowest my desire, which is to possess only Thee, since I have consecrated myself entirely to Thee. Preserve me, dear Lord, from this tyrant, and enable me to overcome the devil who layeth snares for my soul.\"

When the Saint appeared before Quintianus, in order the more easily to overcome her modesty, he gave her up to Aphrodisia, an abominable woman who, together with her daughters, kept an infamous house. In this infamous house the Saint suffered greater torture than the darkest and most fetid dungeon could cause. All the arts of Aphrodisia and her partners in crime were unceasingly applied, in order to induce the Saint to comply with the wishes of Quintianus; but Agatha, who from her infancy had been consecrated to Jesus Christ, was enabled by His Divine grace to overcome all their attempts.

Quintianus, having been informed that the efforts of Aphrodisia for an entire month had been employed in vain, commanded that the Saint should be again brought before him. He upbraided her that, being free born and noble, she had allowed herself to be seduced into the humble servitude of the Christians. The holy virgin courageously confessed that she was a Christian, and that she knew of no nobility more illustrious, nor liberty more real, than to be a servant of Jesus Christ. In order to give the governor to understand how infamous were the deities which he adored and desired her to worship, she asked whether he would wish that his wife should be a prostitute, like Venus, or that he himself should be considered an incestuous adulterer like Jupiter. Quintianus, irritated at her rebuke, commanded her to be buffetted and led to prison. The following day she was again summoned, and asked whether she had resolved to save her life. She replied: \"God is my Life and my Salvation.\" The governor then put her to the torture; but perceiving how little it affected her, he commanded her breasts to be lacerated, and afterwards cut off; a sentence which was executed with barbarous cruelty.

Quintianus then remanded the Saint to prison, commanding that her wounds should be left undressed, in order that she might expire under the torture. But at midnight St. Peter appeared to her in a vision, completely cured her wounds, and freed her from all pain. During the whole of that night there appeared in the interior of the prison so resplendent a light that the guards fled in terror, leaving the door of her dungeon open, so that she could have escaped, as the other prisoners advised her, but she was unwilling, as she said, to lose by flight the crown that was being prepared for her in Heaven.

Quintianus, in no way moved by her miraculous cure, but on the contrary more irritated, after four days devised new torments for the Saint. He commanded that she should be rolled over broken tiles, mixed with burning coals. But she endured all with constancy, and while the tyrant was planning fresh torments, the Saint, perceiving that her life was drawing to a close, made the following prayer: \"O Lord, my Creator, Who hast preserved me from my infancy, hast given me strength to overcome these torments, and hast taken from me the love of the world, receive now my soul. It is time that I should at last pass from this miserable life to the fruition of Thy glory.\" Just as she had finished these words, she tranquilly expired, and went to be united to God to praise Him and love Him forever. This happened in 251. St. Agatha is mentioned in the Canon of the Mass.

