
IV.-CONFIDENCE; THE FOUNDATION OF ONE\'S CONFIDENCE.

But, some one will say, on what am I, a miserable sinner, to found this certain confidence of obtaining what I ask? On what? On the promise made by Jesus Christ: *Ask, and you shall receive* (Jo. xvi. 24). \"Who will fear to be deceived, when the Truth promises?\" says St. Augustine. How can we doubt that we shall be heard, when God, Who is Truth itself, promises to give us that which we ask of Him in Prayer? \"We should not be exhorted to ask,\" says the same Father, \"unless He meant to give.\" This is the very thing to which He exhorts us so strongly, and which is repeated so often in the Scriptures—*pray, ask, seek*, and you shall obtain what you desire: *You shall ask whatever you will, and it shall be done unto you* (Jo. xv. 7). And in order that we may pray to Him with due confidence our Saviour has taught us, in the \"Our Father,\" that when we have recourse to Him for the graces necessary for salvation (all of which are included in the Petitions of the Lord\'s Prayer) we should call Him, not *Lord*, but *Father—Our Father*—because it is His will that we should ask God for grace with the same confidence with which a son, when in want, or sick, asks food or medicine from his own father. If a son is suffering hunger, he has only to make his case known to his father and his father will forthwith provide him with food; and if he has received a bite from a venomous serpent, he has only to show his father the wound, and the father will immediately apply whatever remedy he has.

Trusting, therefore, in God\'s promises, let us always pray with confidence; not vacillating, but stable and firm, as the Apostle says: *Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering: for he is faithful that hath promised* (Heb. x. 23). As it is perfectly certain that God is faithful to His promises, so ought our confidence also be perfectly certain that He will hear us when we pray. And although sometimes, when we are in a state of aridity, or disturbed by some fault we have committed, we perhaps do not feel while praying that sensible confidence which we would wish to experience, yet, for all this, let us force ourselves to pray, and to pray without ceasing, for God will not refuse us. Nay, rather He will hear us more readily, because we shall then pray with more distrust of ourselves, and confiding only in the goodness and faithfulness of God, Who has promised to hear the man who prays to Him. Oh, how God is pleased in the time of our tribulations, of our fears, and of our temptations to see us *hope against hope*; that is, in spite of the feeling of diffidence which we then experience because of our desolation! This is what the Apostle praised in the Patriarch Abraham, *who against hope believed in hope* (Rom. iv. 18).

St. John says that he who reposes a firm trust in God will certainly become a saint: *And every one that hath this hope in him sanctifieth himself, as he also is holy* (1 Jo. iii. 3). For God gives abundant graces to them that trust in Him. By this confidence it was that so many Martyrs and Virgins, and even children, in spite of the dread of the torments which, their persecutors prepared for them, overcame both their tortures and their persecutors.

Sometimes, I say, we pray, but it seems to us that God will not hear us. Ah! let us not then neglect to persevere in Prayer and to hope; let us then say with Job: *Although he should kill me, I will trust in him* (Job xiii. 15). O my God! though Thou shouldst drive me from Thy presence, I will not cease to pray, and to hope in Thy Mercy. Let us do so, and we shall obtain what we want from God. So did the Canaanitish woman, and she obtained all that she wished from Jesus Christ. This woman had a daughter possessed of a devil, and prayed our Saviour to deliver her: *Have mercy on me, my daughter is grievously tormented by a devil* (Matt. xv. 22). Our Lord answered her that He was not sent for the Gentiles, of whom she was one, but for the Jews. She, however, did not lose heart, but renewed her prayer with confidence: Lord, Thou canst console me Thou must console me. *Lord help me!* (Matt. xv. 25). Jesus answered: *It is not good to take the children\'s bread and to cast it to the dogs.* (Matt. xv. 26). But she replied: *Yea, Lord; for even the whelps eat of the crumbs that fall from the table of their masters* (Matt. xv. 27). Then our Saviour, seeing the great confidence of this woman, praised her, and did what she asked, saying: *O woman, great is thy faith; be it done to thee as thou wilt* (Matt. xv. 28). For who, says Ecclesiasticus has ever called on God for aid, and has been neglected and left unaided by Him? *Or who hath called upon him and he hath despised him?* (Ecclus. ii. 12).

St. Augustine says that Prayer is *a key which opens heaven to us*; the same moment in which our Prayer ascends to God, the grace which we ask for descends to us: \"The Prayer of the just *is the key of heaven; the* petition ascends, and the mercy of God descends.\" The royal Prophet says that our supplications and God\'s Mercy are united together: *Blessed be God, who has not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me* (Ps. lxv. 20. And hence the same St. Augustine says that when we are praying to God we ought to be certain that God is listening to us \"When you see that your prayer is not removed from you, be sure that His Mercy is not removed from you.\" And for myself, I speak the truth, I never feel greater consolation nor a greater confidence of my salvation than when I am praying to God, and recommending myself to Him. And I think that the same thing happens to all other believers. All the other signs of our salvation are uncertain and unstable, but that God hears the man who prays to Him with confidence is an infallible truth, as it is infallible that God cannot fail in His promises.

When we find ourselves weak and unable to overcome any passion, or any great difficulty in fulfilling that which God requires of us, let us take courage and say, with the Apostle: *I can do all things in him that strengtheneth me* (Philip. iv. 13). Let us not say, as some do: *I cannot; I distrust myself*. With *our own strength* certainly we *can do nothing*; but with *God\'s help we can do everything*. If God said to some one: Take this mountain on your shoulders and carry it, for I am helping you, would not the man be a fool or impious if he answered: I will not take it, for I have not strength to carry it? And thus, when we know how miserable and weak we are and when we find ourselves most encompassed with temptations, let us not lose heart, but let us lift up our eyes to God, and say, with David: *The Lord is my helper; and I will despise my enemies.* (Ps. cxvii. 7). With the help of my Lord, I shall overcome and laugh to scorn all the assaults of my foes. And when we find ourselves in danger of offending God, or in any other critical position, and are too confused to know what is best to be done, let us recommend ourselves to God, saying: *The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear?* (Ps. xxvi. 1). And let us be sure that God will then certainly give us light, and will save us from every evil.

