# Presence of God

O Jesus, I come to You like Thomas; grant that I may not be unbelieving, but faithful.

# Meditation

**I.** Today's liturgy is concerned in a very special way with the newly baptized, who, at the close of Easter week, laid aside the white garments which they had received at the baptismal font. It is actually to them that St. Peter addressed his affectionate recommendation which we read in the Introit of the Mass : "As newborn babes, desire the pure spiritual milk." These words continue to express the maternal solicitude of the Church for the children whom she has regenerated in Christ, and especially for the newly born. We, too, are the object of this solicitude. Although we were baptized as infants, we can say that every Easter regenerates us in Christ by means of our spiritual resurrection in Him. Therefore, we also must be like "newborn babes," in whom there is no malice, deceit, pride, or presumption, but only candor and simplicity, confidence and love. This is a wonderful invitation to the spiritual childhood which Jesus told us is an indispensable condition for attaining salvation : "Unless you be converted and become as little children, you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven" ([Mt. 18, 3](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.18?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.18.3:vs)). Each wave of grace purifies and cleanses our soul from sin and its roots, giving us rebirth to a new life in Christ, a pure, innocent life, which craves only "the pure spiritual milk" of the doctrine of Christ, His love and His grace. Today, however, the Church wishes to turn our desires in a very special way toward faith : that faith which makes us cling to Jesus so as to be taught by Him, and nourished and guided toward eternal life. The Master's words upon which we meditated last week are equally appropriate here : "He that believeth in Me... from within him shall flow rivers ofliving water... springing up into life everlasting" ([Jo. 7, 38](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jo.7?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jo.7.38:vs), [Jo. 4, 14](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jo.4?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jo.4.14:vs)). Let us draw near to Jesus with the simple, sincere faith of a little child, and He will give us the abundance of His grace as a pledge of eternal life.

**II.** Today's Gospel ([Jo. 20, 19-31](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jo.20?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jo.20.19-31:vs)) has the particular value ofstrengthening us in our faith.

Thomas doubt confirms us in the faith, for as St. Gregory says, "His disbelief was more useful to us than the faith of the other Apostles." If he had not doubted, no man would have "put his finger in the wounds of the nails, nor his hand into the side" of Our Lord. Jesus had pity on the tottering faith of the Apostle, and on ours, too; and He allowed him not only to see Him, as He had allowed the others, but also to touch Him, thereby permitting Thomas, the incredulous, to do what He had not permitted Mary Magdalen, the most faithful one. From this incident we derive a better understanding of God's ways. Whereas He gives sensible consolations and more or less palpable signs of His presence to souls who are still wavering in the faith, He often leads by very obscure paths those who have irrevocably given themselves to Him and on whose faith He can count. God is a Father. He never denies to any soul who seeks Him with sincerity the necessary props to support its faith, but He often refuses to the strong what He grants to the weak. Is this not Jesus' own teaching : "Blessed are they that have not seen, and have believed"? Blessed are they who, in order to believe in God, do not need to see Him or to touch Him and do not require sensible signs, but who can unreservedly affirm : Scio cui credidi, "I know whom I have believed" ([2Tm. 1, 12](https://vulgata.online/bible/2Tm.1?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.2Tm.1.12:vs)), and I am sure of Him. Faith such as this is more meritorious for us, because, being founded solely on the word of God, it is entirely supernatural. It shows greater honor to God, because it gives Him full credence, without demanding any proof, and because it perseveres even in obscurity and in the midst of the most disconcerting events—even when it seems that heaven is closed and the Lord is deaf to our groanings.

Such a strong faith as this is certainly the fruit of divine grace, but we must prepare ourselves to receive it, both by asking for it in prayer, and by exercising ourselves in this same faith.

# Colloquy

My God, give me a simple, pure heart, free of malice and hypocrisy. "O Lord, grant me true purity and simplicity : in my looks, words, heart, intentions, works, and in all my interior and exterior acts. I should like to know, O Lord, what there is in me that impedes these virtues. I shall tell you, O my soul, since I cannot make anyone else understand. Do you know that the obstacle is the smallest glance that is not directed to God, and all the words that are not spoken in praise of Him or for the benefit of your neighbor. Do you know how you drive these virtues out ofyour heart? You banish them every time you fail to have the pure intention of honoring God or helping your neighbor; you also expel them when you try to cover up and excuse your faults, forgetting that God sees everything, including your heart. O Lord, give me real purity and true simplicity, for You cannot find Your rest in a soul which is without them" (cf. St. Mary Magdalen dei Pazzi).

O Lord, cleanse my heart and lips in the fire of Your charity, so that I may love You and seek You with the purity and simplicity of a child. Give me also the simple faith of a child, faith without a shadow, without uncertainty or useless reasoning; an upright, pure faith which finds its satisfaction in Your word, in your testimony, for in this it is at peace and desires nothing else.

"O Lord, what is it to me whether I feel or do not feel, whether I am in darkness or in light, whether I have joy or suffering, when I can be recollected in the light created in me by Your words? I feel a kind of shame in differentiating between such matters, and while I feel that I am still affected by them, I heartily despise myself for my want of love, but I quickly turn my gaze upon you, my divine Master, to be delivered by You... I will exalt You above Your sweetness and sensible consolations, for I am resolved to pass by all else in order to be united with You" (cf. E.T. II, 4).