# Presence of God

O Holy Spirit, make me docile to Your action and always willing to be guided and directed by You.

# Meditation

**I.** In what concerns sanctity, we are always like school children, apprentices who, having only a rudimentary knowledge of the art they are learning, are always in need ofdirection and suggestions from their teacher. Our Teacher ofsanctity is none other than the Holy Spirit; Jesus, speaking of Him, said, "He will teach you all things, and bring.. .to your mind, whatsoever I shall have said to you" ([Jo. 14, 26](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jo.14?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jo.14.26:vs)). He teaches us what we must do in order to love God with all our strength; He teaches us all that we do not know, whether about God, or about the spiritual life; and to perfect His teaching, He guides us in the accomplishment of it. Actually, by directly influencing our wills, He strengthens them, attracts them, impels them forcefully to God, orientating them perfectly toward Him. In this way the Holy Spirit "helpeth our infirmity" ([Rm. 8, 26](https://vulgata.online/bible/Rm.8?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Rm.8.26:vs)), which being constitutional—inherent in our human nature—causes us to be continually in need of Him. In truth, He never leaves us : our whole spiritual life is enveloped in His action. We have seen how, from the very beginning, He comes to help us by preparing and encouraging our own personal initiatives; but then, if He finds us docile to His invitations, He Himself takes the initiative. That is why the whole work of our sanctification may be reduced to a question of docility to the divine Paraclete. Before all else, we must be very attentive and docile to His invitations : "Utinam hodie vocem ejus audiatis; nolite obdurare corda vestra," Oh, today, if you shall hear His voice, harden not your hearts! ([Ps. 94, 8](https://vulgata.online/bible/Ps.94?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Ps.94.8:vs)). The promptings of the Holy Spirit can come to us in the words of Sacred Scripture, preaching, the teachings of the Church, the various circumstances of life, good thoughts and holy inspirations. Let us cooperate with them at once, proving our good will by our ready acceptance of and obedience to them.

**II.** But very often, alas! our will still remains hard, stubborn, and intractable because it is so attached to creatures, especially to that one creature, the "ego," which we blindly cherish. Hence, to cooperate with the action of the Holy Spirit, the first requirement is the painstaking effort to detach ourselves from everything, especially from ourselves. Detachment will free us from numerous bonds which, like cords, tie us to creatures, making our docility and submissiveness to the Holy Spirit an impossibility. Let us be mindful of the fact that a fine thread, that is, any little attachment, is sufficient to bind our souls to creatures. "It comes to the same thing whether a bird be held by a slender cord or a stout one; since, even if it be slender, the bird will be as well held as though it were stout, for so long as it breaks it not it cannot fly away" (J.C. AS /, 11,4). Detachment breaks the thread which fastens us to earth, and our soul, thus freed, can follow every slightest impulse of the Holy Spirit, who will then take possession of it and direct it according to His good pleasure.

We have said that the Paraclete is not content simply to invite us to what is good, but He wishes to take the initiative, impelling us more effectually toward God. However, He respects our liberty, and will not make Himself Master of our will unless we are disposed to give it to Him freely. And here we can set up another obstacle to His action : the Holy Spirit would like to elevate us and bring us to God, but we do not accept His initiative and our lack of generosity retards the divine work. Perhaps we cooperate partially, giving Him something of what He asks, but we do not give Him "all." We must, therefore, cultivate the spirit of "totality" which puts no limits to our giving. We must have a magnanimous heart and not retard the work of the Holy Spirit, who wills to bring us, not only, to good actions but to generous, heroic, saintly ones.

# Colloquy

"O merciful God, my sweetness and my love, send Your Holy Spirit from paradise and create in me a new heart and spirit. Your unction teaches me everything, because I have chosen You among thousands and I love You above all else, more than my own soul. O Holy Spirit, God of love, receive me into Your sweet, merciful charity, so that, during the whole course ofmy life, I may have You as Master, Teacher, and sweet Lover of my heart" (St. Gertrude).

"O Holy Spirit, teach me to value even Your slightest inspiration. The smallest, were it only to refrain from a word or a glance, is more precious in fact than the entire world, for it is a call, an invitation to enter more deeply into divine intimacy. By faithfully corresponding to it, I grow in grace and love. O Holy Spirit, make me understand well that perfection consists in saying "Amen" every time You ask anything of me through the voice of obedience or by Your inspirations. Help me to avoid every slight infidelity or hesitation, to refuse You nothing; then Your light will grow in me continually and love will become an unfathomable abyss. But, O Holy Spirit, I know very well that I shall often fall, and that I shall commit faults; O my God, let them not be voluntary! However, You teach me that, even in this event, I must rise at once and, by an act oflove, place myself under Your influence again. You do not want me to be troubled or discouraged by my infidelities, for Your Spirit is all sweetness. ‘Oh! how sweet is Your Spirit, O Lord! ’ and ‘ where the Spirit of the Lord is, there also is liberty, ’ joy, and peace in the Holy Spirit" (cf. Sr. Carmela of the Holy Spirit, O.C.D.).
