# Presence of God

O Jesus, teach me not only how to live with You, but how to live in You, to abide in You.

# Meditation

**I.** On the evening of the Last SupperJesus said : Abide in Me and I in you ([Jo. 15, 4](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jo.15?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jo.15.4:vs)) and shortly afterwards He instituted the Eucharist, the Sacrament whose specific purpose is to nourish our life of union with Him. When Jesus comes to us, He does not depart without leaving on our soul the impress of grace, like a seal pressed on hot wax. . .which leaves its impression after it has been removed. Thus the virtue of this sacrament, the warmth of divine charity, remains in the soul (St. Catherine of Siena). Jesus said, I am come to cast fire on the earth, and what will I but that it be kindled? ([Lc. 12, 49](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.12?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Lc.12.49:vs)), and where will He light the fire of His love if not in the soul of the communicant who has the great privilege of giving Him hospitality? Each time we approach the Eucharistic table, Jesus, through the power of this Sacrament, rekindles in us the fire of His love and leaves the imprint of His grace; by this love and grace we remain spiritually united to Him. Even if we do not think of it, this reality is accomplished and is, of itself, very precious. However, Jesus wishes us to be aware of it, that we may live our union with Him in its fullness. Note that in speaking of our union with Himself, Jesus always presupposes our action before His own : He that eateth My Flesh. . . abideth in Me and I in Him, Abide in Me, and I in you ([Jn. 6, 57](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jn.6?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jn.6.57:vs) - [Jn. 15, 4](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jn.15?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jn.15.4:vs)); not that our action is the more important—for Jesus always precedes us with His grace, without which any union with Him would be impossible—-but He would have us understand that we shall be united to Him in proportion to our correspondence with grace. Each Communion, of itself, brings us a new grace of union with Christ and therefore offers us the possibility of greater intimacy with Him, but we will live this union only according to the measure of our good will and our interior dispositions.

**II.** If we wish to abide in Christ throughout the day—having been nourished by Him in Holy Communion—- we must, first of all, keep our heart recollected. If as soon as we leave the Church we forget that we have received the Lord and we submerge ourselves in other business and occupations and worldly hindrances says St. Teresa of Avila (Way, 34), we will never be able to remain united to Christ. Further, the Saint would tell us that by acting in such a way we seem to be making all possible haste to prevent the Lord from taking possession of the house which is His own (ibid.). The state of grace suffices, it is true, to keep us spiritually united to Christ, but how much more fruitful this union would be for us, if we tried to live it actually! Therefore, even in the midst of our daily occupations, let us try to remain under the influence of our morning Communion, that is, under the influence of Jesus, of His love, and His unceasing action in our soul. We should return often, at least in spirit, to the tabernacle to keep ourselves in contact with the Eucharist. If our duties oblige us to go out, let every church we pass or see from a distance, be a sweet reminder of the Lord we have received that day or will receive on the following day; let it be the occasion for a quick but fervent impulse of our heart toward Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament, or a rapid return to the sanctuary of our soul, there to renew our interior contact with the Lord. We should try to make a visit to the Blessed Sacrament every day, in such a way that it will be a real heart-to-heart visit with Jesus. If we truly hunger after Him we should feel an urgent need of keeping ourselves under the influence of the Eucharist; we should make use of all possible means to profit as much as we can from the grace of union with Christ, which has been offered to us in Holy Communion. By doing this, our sacramental Communion will be prolonged throughout the day by means of a continual spiritual Communion with Jesus. Then we will be really living by Him, for as He said, He that eateth Me, the same also shall live by Me ([Jn. 6, 58](https://vulgata.online/bible/Jn.6?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Jn.6.58:vs)).

# Colloquy

O Jesus, unite my heart to Yours, and consume everything in it that is displeasing to You; unite all that I am to all that You are, that You may supply for everything I lack. Unite my prayers and praises to those You address to Your Father from the Blessed Sacrament of the altar, so that Your prayer may supply for the deficiencies ofmine.

In order to make myself like You, who on the altar are obedient to every priest, good or bad, I will obey promptly and will put myself in the hands of my superiors as a victim to be immolated, so that dying to all my own wishes, inclinations, passions, and repugnances, I can be disposed of by my superiors as they see fit, without showing any repugnance. And as Your life in the Blessed Sacrament is completely hidden from the eyes of creatures, who see nothing but the poor appearance of the bread, so I shall strive, for love of You, to live so hidden that I shall always be veiled under the ashes of humility, loving to be despised, and rejoicing to appear the poorest and most abject of all.

In order to be like You, who are always alone in the Blessed Sacrament, I shall love solitude and try to converse with You as much as possible. Grant that my mind may notseek to know anything but You, that my heart may have no longings or desires but to love You. When I am obliged to take some comfort, I shall take care to see that it be pleasing to Your Heart. In my conversations, O divine Word, I shall consecrate all my words to You so that You will not permit me to pronounce a single one which is not for Your glory... When I am thirsty, I shall endure it in honor of the thirst You endured for the salvation ofsouls... If by chance, I commit some fault, I shall humble myself, and then take the opposite virtue from Your Heart, offering it to the eternal Father in expiation for my failure. All this I intend to do, O Eucharistic Jesus, to unite myself to You in every action of the day (cf. St. Margaret Mary).
