# Presence of God

Grant, O Lord, that I may understand the depth of meaning in the precept of fraternal charity.

# Meditation

**I.** Jesus has given us as the foundation of all law, not only the precept of the love of God, the greatest and the first commandment, but also the precept of the love of neighbor, and He expressly said that it is like to the first ([Mt. 22, 38-39](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.22?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.22.38-39:vs)). That the precept of the love of God should be the basis of all Christian life is easy to understand, but it is not so easy to see that the same holds true of the precept of fraternal charity. However, Jesus has bound these two commandments so closely that the one cannot subsist without the other. He did not say that all is based on the first commandment, that of love of God, but on these two commandments [the love of God and of neighbor] dependeth the whole law and the prophets ([Mt. 22, 40](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.22?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.22.40:vs))). Why did He put the love of neighbor so close to the love of God as to make of it, with the latter, the one foundation of all Christianity? Because the virtue of fraternal charity is not love of the creature in itself and for itself, but it is love of the creature propter Deum, that is, for God’s sake, because of its relation to God. In other words, we must clearly understand that God commands us to love Him not only in Himself, but also in His rational creatures whom He has been pleased to create to His image and likeness. Just as a father wants to be loved and respected not only in his own person, but also in that of his children, so God wants to be loved in His creatures as well as in Himself, and He desires this to such an extent that He considers anything done to one of His creatures as done to Him. Jesus has said : Amen I say to you, as long as you did it to one of these my least brethren, you did it to Me ([Mt. 25, 40](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.25?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.25.40:vs)). Fraternal charity is of great importance, because it is in reality an extension of our charity toward God, an extension which embraces all men in relation to God, their Creator and their Father. For this reason, the precept of the love of neighbor is inseparable from the precept of the love of God.

**II.** God is so insistent upon being loved in the neighbor that He makes this love the essential condition of our eternal salvation. When Jesus speaks to us of the last judgment, He gives no other reason for the justification of the good and the condemnation of the wicked than the doing of, or the omission of, works of mercy toward our neighbor. Come, ye blessed of My Father, possess the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Why? For I was hungry, and you gave Me to eat; I was thirsty, and you gave Me to drink. . . ([Mt. 25, 34-35](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.25?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.25.34-35:vs)). I was hungry in the poor, I thirsted in your neighbor. If it is very consoling to know that God considers works of charity done to our neighbor as done to Himself, and rewards them as such, it is a matter of serious reflection to know that He also considers failures in charity toward our neighbor as if done to Himself, and so will punish them accordingly. Jesus, who is the personification of the goodness and infinite mercy of our heavenly Father, does not hesitate to pronounce the sentence of eternal damnation against those who have not loved, or helped, or consoled their neighbor. Why? Because : Amen I say to you, as long as you did it not to one of these least, neither did you do it to Me ([Mt. 25, 45](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.25?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.25.45:vs)). God requires the concrete proof of our love for Him to be shown in the way we behave toward our neighbor. We cannot delude ourselves into thinking that we love God if we do not love our fellow men, who, like us, are the living images of our heavenly Father. What difference does it make if this image is sometimes disfigui'ed by faults, by sin, or even by vices? It always remains the image of God which charity ought to make us recognize, venerate, and love in every man, regardless of his condition. We cannot be satisfied with an idealistic love for God. Our love must be realistic and actualized in our dealings with our neighbor : this is the unfailing proof of our love for God.

# Colloquy

O charity, you are as great as my God Himself, for God is Charity. You are so exalted that you reach the throne of the Blessed Trinity. There you enter the bosom of the eternal Father, and from the Father’s bosom, you go to the heart of the Incarnate Word, where you take your rest and are nourished. Thus the soul who possesses you seeks its nourishment and rest in God alone, after which it returns to earth, for you reach even to our neighbors, O charity, loving them not only as creatures, but as beings created by God to His own image and likeness. You do not stop at loving their bodies, that is, their exterior appearance, but you penetrate to the interior of their souls, which you love more than all else. You do not stop at God’s gifts, but soar to the Giver and love all men only in Him.

O charity, you are so sublime that you unite us to God! You can do all things and in the Church you form a trinity, as it were, similar to the Blessed Trinity; because just as the Father is God, the Son is God, the Holy Spirit is God, and all three are united and are one and the same Being, so, by your virtue, O charity, this union reaches us, because you unite the soul to God, and one soul to another; in this invisible way, you form in the Church a kind of trinity. He who possesses you, O charity, nourishes himself with God, to such a point that he becomes like God through grace and participation.

O my God, give me such perfect charity that I may know how to yield to my neighbor, helping and relieving him in all his needs, weaknesses, and troubles. May I know how to have prudent compassion for the faults of others (St. Mary Magdalen dei Pazzi).
