# Presence of God

Give me, O Lord, humility with love; let humility guard charity in me, and may charity increase according to the measure of Your will.

# Meditation

**I.** In the texts of today’s Mass, the liturgy sketches the features of the Christian soul in its fundamental lines. First St. Paul shows us in the Epistle ([1Co. 12, 2-11](https://vulgata.online/bible/1Co.12?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.1Co.12.2-11:vs)) a soul vivified by the Holy Spirit, who diffuses His gifts in it. The Apostle mentions charismatic gifts, that is, those special graces, such as the gift of tongues, of knowledge, ofmiracles, bestowed by the Holy Spirit with great generosity upon the primitive Church. Although these are very precious gifts, they are inferior to sanctifying grace and charity, which alone give supernatural life to the soul. Whereas charismatic gifts may or may not accompany sanctifying grace, they neither increase nor deciease its intensity thereby. St. Thomas notes that while grace and charity sanctify the soul and unite it to God, these miraculous gifts, on the contrary, are ordered for the good of another and can subsist even in one who is not in the state of grace. St. Paul also—and in the same letter from which the passage in today’s Mass is taken—after enumerating all these extraordinary gifts, concludes with his famous words : “ ... all this, without charity, is nothing. ” Charity is always the “ central ” virtue, the fundamental characteristic of the Christian soul, and is also the greatest gift the Holy Spirit can give us. If the divine Paraclete did not vivify our soul by charity and grace, no one, not even the most virtuous, could perform the slightest act of superna¬ tural value. “ No man can say the Lord Jesus but by the Holy Ghost, ” the Apostle says. Just as a tree cannot bring forth fruit if it is deprived of its life-giving sap, so the soul which is not vivified by the Holy Spirit cannot perform acts of super¬ natural value. Note once again the great importance of grace and charity; the smallest degree of them is worth more than all the extraordinary gifts which, although they can dispose souls to good, can neither infuse nor increase divine life in us.

**II.** The Gospel (Lk 18,9-14[Lc. 18, 9-14](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.18?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Lc.18.9-14:vs)) presents us with another fundamental characteristic of the Christian soul : humility. Charity, it is true, is superior to it because it gives us divine life; yet, humility is of great importance because it is the virtue which clears the ground to make room for grace and charity. Jesus gives us a vivid and concrete example of this truth in today’s parable ofthe Pharisee and the publican. The Gospel tells us explicitly thatJesus was speaking to some who “ trusted in themselves as just and despised others. ” The Pharisee is the prototype, the perfect representative of this group. See him! how convinced of his justice, how puffed up by his own merits : I am neither a thief nor an adulterer, I fast and pay tithes. What more can one expect? But this proud man does not see that he lacks the greatest of all things, charity, so much so that he inveighs against others, accuses and condemns them : “ I am not as the rest of men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, as also is this publican. ” Having no charity for his neighbor, he cannot have charity toward God. In fact, having gone into the Temple to pray, he is incapable of making the least little act of love or adoration, and instead of praising God for His blessings, he does nothing but praise himself. This man is really unable to pray because he has no charity, and he cannot have any because he is full of pride. “ God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble ” (Jas 4,6). Therefore, the Pharisee returns home condemned, not so much by God who always loves to show mercy, as by his own pride which impedes the work of mercy in him.

The attitude of the publican is entirely different. He is a poor man who knows he has sinned, and he is aware ofhis moral wretchedness. He does not possess charity either, because sin is an obstacle to it, but he is humble, very humble, and he trusts in the mercy of God. “ O God, be merciful to me, a sinner! ” And God who loves to bend down to the humble, justifies him at that very moment; his humility has drawn down upon him the grace of the Most High. St. Augustine has said : “ God prefers humility in things that are done badly, rather than pride in those which are done well! ” We are not justified by our virtues and our good works, but by grace and charity, which the Holy Spirit diffuses in our hearts, “ according as He wills, ” yes, but always in proportion to our humility.

# Colloquy 

“ O good Jesus, how often after bitter tears, sobs, and indescribable groanings, You have healed the wounds of my conscience by the unction of Your mercy and the oil of Your joy! How often after I have begun my prayer without hope, I have found my joy again in the hope offorgiveness! Those who have experienced this know that You are a real physician, who heals contrite hearts and solicitously tends their wounds. Let those who as yet have not had this experience, believe, at least, in Your words : ‘ The Spirit ofthe Lord hath anointed Me; He hath sent Me to preach to the meek, to heal the contrite of heart. 1 If they still doubt, let them approach You and learn, and they will understand what Your words mean : ‘ I will have mercy and not sacrifice. ’

“ O Lord, You said, ‘ Come to Me, all you that labor and are burdened, and I will refresh you. ’ But what path should I take to reach You? The path of humility, for only then will You console me. But what consolation do You promise to the humble? Charity. In fact, the soul will obtain charity in proportion to its humility. O what sweet, delicious food is charity! It sustains us when we are weary, strengthens us when we are weak, and comforts us when we are sad. O Lord, give me this charity which makes Your yoke sweet and Your burden light ” (St. Bernard).
