
_He became obedient unto death even to the death of the cross: for which cause God hath exalted him_. — [Phil. ii, 8](https://vulgata.online/bible/Phil.ii?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Phil.ii.8:vs).

Merit is a thing which implies a certain equality of justice. Thus St. Paul says, _To him that worketh the reward is reckoned according to debt_ ([Rom. iv, 4](https://vulgata.online/bible/Rom.iv?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Rom.iv.4:vs)).

Now since a man who commits an injustice takes for himself more than is due to himself, it is just that he suffer loss even in what is actually due to him. If a man steals one sheep, he shall give back four as it says in Holy Scripture ([Exod. xxii, 1](https://vulgata.online/bible/Exod.xxii?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Exod.xxii.1:vs)). And this is said to be merited inasmuch as in this way the man's evil will is punished. In the same way the man who acts with such justice that he take less than what is due to him, merits that more shall be generously superadded to what he has, as a kind of reward for his just will. So, for instance, the gospel tells us, _He that humbleth himself shall be exalted_ ([Lc. xiv, 11](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.xiv?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Lc.xiv.11:vs)).

Now in His Passion Christ humbled himself below His dignity in four respects:

- (i) In respect of His Passion and His death, things which He did not owe to undergo.

- (ii) In respect to places, for His body was placed in a grave and his soul in hell.

- (iii) In respect to the confusion and shame that He endured.

- (iv) In respect to His being delivered over to human authority, as He said Himself to Pilate, _Thou shouldst not have any power against me, unless it were given thee from above_ (Jo. xix. n).

Therefore, on account of His Passion, He merited a fourfold exaltation.

- (i) A glorious resurrection. It is said in the Psalm (Ps. cxxxviii. 1), _Thou hast known my sitting down_, that is, the humiliation of my Passion, _and my rising up_.

- (ii) An ascension into heaven. Whence it is said, _He descended first into the lower parts of the earth: He that descended is the same also that ascended above all the heavens_ ([Eph. iv, 9](https://vulgata.online/bible/Eph.iv?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Eph.iv.9:vs)), 10).

- (iii) To be seated at the right hand of the Father, with His divinity made manifest. Isaias says, _He shall be exalted, and extolled, and shall be exceeding high. As many have been astonished at thee, so shall his visage be inglorious among men, and St. Paul says, He became obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross. For which cause God hath exalted him and hath given him a name which is above all names_ ([Phil. ii, 8](https://vulgata.online/bible/Phil.ii?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Phil.ii.8:vs)), 9), that is to say, He shall be named God by all, and all shall pay Him reverence as God. And this is why St. Paul adds, _That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth_ (ibid. x).

- (iv) A power of judgment. For it is said, _Thy cause hath been judged as that of the wicked. Cause and judgment thou shalt recover_ (Job xxxvi. 17).

(3 49 6.)

