> *Ego dixi: Dii estis, et filii Excelsi omnes*  
> You are gods and all of you the sons of the most High.  
> [Ps. 81, 6](https://vulgata.online/bible/Ps.81?ed=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Ps.81.6:vs)

***Summary.** It is with good reason that the saints held priests in the highest esteem. As for the mystical body of Jesus Christ, which are all the faithful, the priests have the power to deliver the sinner from hell and make him an heir to paradise. As for the Real Body, it is a point of faith that, when the priest consecrates, the eternal Word descends from heaven to hide Himself under the sacramental species. Oh sublime dignity!... Let us always try to have great veneration for the ministers of God, and, being priests, let us be the first to respect our priestly character, if we wish to be respected by others.*

**I.** The dignity of the priest and the respect due to him, come from the power he has over the mystical body and the real body of Jesus Christ. As for the mystical body, which are all the faithful, the priest has the power of the keys, that is, the power to free the sinner from hell and make him heir to paradise. God wanted to oblige Himself to ratify the priest's sentence, to forgive or not to forgive, according to whether the priest absolves the penitent for being in good disposition, or does not absolve him. The priest's gives the sentence and God endorses it.

If the Redeemer descended from heaven to a church and sat in one confessionary to administer the sacrament of Penance, and in another (confessionary) a priest sat: if Jesus Christ and the priest both said: Ego te absolvo — "I absolve you", both penitents would be equally absolved. - What an honor it would be for a person, if the king conferred on him the power to release from prison whoever he wanted! But much greater is the power that Jesus Christ gave to his ministers: the power to deliver not only bodies but souls from hell.

As for the real body of Jesus Christ, it is a point of faith that the incarnate Word oblige himself to descend into the hands of the priest that consecrates, under the sacramental species. It is astonishing to hear that God obeyed Joshua, causing the sun to stop at his command: obedient *Deo voce hominis – “God obeying the voice of man”* ([Js. 10, 14](https://vulgata.online/bible/Js.10?ed=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Js.10.14:vs)) . But it is more astonishing, however, to hear that in virtue of the priest's few words, God himself obeys and comes to the altar, or wherever He is called, and puts himself in the priest's hands, even when if he is His enemy.

Jesus, once He has come, is entirely at the disposal of the priest. Thepriest handle Him as he pleases, putting Him in the tabernacle, or laying Him out on the altar, or taking Him out of the church, or taking Him for his own nourishment, or giving Him as food to others. Oh sublime power of the priest! Oh ineffable goodness of the Redeemer!

**II.** The dignity of the ministers of God being so great, the saints were right to have feelings of the highest veneration towards them. Saint Martin, invited to the table of Emperor Maximus, drank first to the health of his chaplain and then to that of the emperor. At the Council of Nicea, Constantine the Great wanted to sit in the last place, after all the priests, and in a lower chair. When Saint Anthony found a priest on his path, he immediately would put himself on his knee and did not rise until he had kissed his hand and had been blessed by him. Santa Catarina de Sena came to devoutly kiss the land that the priest had steped.

My brother, whatever your state, do your best to imitate the saints in their veneration for the ministers of Jesus Christ. If you yourself are fortunate enough to belong to the number of priests, in order to be respected by others, be the first to respect in your own person, as well as in that of your colleagues, your sacred character. May your actions always be in harmony with your dignity and in accordance with the precept of the apostle: “*In all things shew thyself an example of good works, in doctrine, in integrity, in gravity, The sound word that can not be blamed: that he who is on the contrary part may be afraid, having no evil to say of us.*” ([Tt. 2, 7](https://vulgata.online/bible/Tt.2?ed=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Tt.2.7:vs))

Considering then that it is through priests that the salvation or ruin of peoples is brought about, that blessing or curse comes upon them, you should earnestly pleads and urges God to give his Church zealous ministers. This is one of the main purposes for which the Temporas were instituted, in the four seasons of the year.

My God, I believe that among all created dignities that of the priesthood is the highest. I believe this, O Lord, and therefore I promise with your help to always esteem and venerate all priests, because they are Your representatives on earth. I also propose to listen to those who want to give me as Superiors, as I would listen to Your own voice, for having said: *Que vos audit, me audit, et qui vos spernit, me spernit – “ He that heareth you heareth me: and he that despiseth you despiseth me* ([Lc. 10, 16](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.10?ed=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Lc.10.16:vs)) . But You, O my God, give me the grace to be faithful to You, and give Your Church zealous ministers, who are pleasing to Your Heart and convert a large number of souls. – I ask you for this grace through the intercession of Mary Most Holy.
