> **Omnis arbor, quae non facit fructum bonum, excidetur et in ignem mittetur**  
*Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be cut down, and shall be cast into the fire.*  
[Mt. 7, 19](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.7?tr=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Mt.7.19:vs)

***Summary** We are persuaded that faith alone is not enough for our salvation. Works are also necessary, because, as our Lord says in today's Gospel: "Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be cut down, and shall be cast into the fire.". These works are not the same for everyone; they differ according to the state in which God has placed us. How many Christians, desiring to do great things, neglect the duties of their own state and condemn themselves! My brother, put your hand on your conscience: are you perhaps one of these unfortunates?*

**I.** In today's Gospel Jesus Christ warns us against corrupters of Christian doctrine and morals; and especially against those who deny the need for good works to gain eternal salvation.

“Beware” says the Lord ([Mt. 7, 15](https://vulgata.online/bible/Mt.7?tr=DR2&vfn=DR2.Mt.7.15:vs)), “of false prophets, who come to you in the clothing of sheep, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. By their fruits you shall know them. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles? Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, and the evil tree bringeth forth evil fruit.”

“A good tree cannot,” thus continues the Lord, “ cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can an evil tree bring forth good fruit. Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit, shall be cut down, and shall be cast into the fire. Wherefore by their fruits you shall know them. Not every one that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven: but he that doth the will of my Father who is in heaven, he shall enter into the kingdom of heaven.”

Faith, therefore, is not sufficient by itself for salvation; *works are also necessary, without which faith is dead* ([Tg. 2, 26](https://vulgata.online/bible/Tg.2?tr=DR2&vfn=DR2.Tg.2.26:vs)). They are necessary in the first place for the innocent because God tells us that in the day of judgment he will *give to each one according to his works* ([Rm. 2, 6](https://vulgata.online/bible/Rm.2?tr=DR2&vfn=DR2.Rm.2.6:vs)). They are even more necessary to penitents; because conversion does not consist only in contrition of the heart and oral confession, but also in *bearing worthy fruits of penance* ([Lc. 3, 8](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.3?tr=DR2&vfn=DR2.Lc.3.8:vs)). He who does not produce such fruit is reserved for the fate of the useless tree: *It will be cut down and thrown into the fire*. – Examine now, my brother, if you have the faith, which is accompanied by the fruits of good works; or only leafs and flowers of vain desires and ineffectual purposes. Reflects on it, that many Christians, your fellow men, are now burning in hell for having had a dead faith.

**II.** Even though good works are indispensable for entry into heaven, they are not, however, equal for everyone; but each must do well according to his state and his profession. – That is why in the Gospel of this day the Lord compares us to plants, which do not all produce the same fruits, but each one of its kind ([Gn. 1, 12](https://vulgata.online/bible/Gn.1?tr=DR2&vfn=DR2.Gn.1.12:vs)) The same is also insinuated to us by the following words:  He that doth the will of my Father who is in heaven, he shall enter into the kingdom of heaven.

Here again examine how, in your state of priest, religious or secular, you fulfill your duties to God, to yourself and to your neighbor, because, in the words of St. Francis de Sales: “Without fulfilling these duties, even if you raised the dead, you would be an enemy of God and die in a state of condemnation.” – Above all, take care that you are not in the number of those who, desiring to do great things, neglect to do well the ordinary things.

O Lord, behold, I am that tree that so long deserved to hear: Succide ergo illam ([Lc. 13, 7](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.13?tr=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Lc.13.7:vs)) “Cut it down”. Yes, because in all the years that I find myself in the world, I have not produced fruits, but thorns and thistles of sin for You. But, You don't want me to get lost; on the contrary, I see that You offer me forgiveness if I regret having offended You. Yes, weigh me, Oh infinite goodness; and I promise that in the days I have left, I will try to repair the past, redoubling my fervor in loving and serving You.

But You, O my God, strengthen me with your grace; and “by your providence, which is not mistaken in its dispositions, take away from me everything that is harmful and grant me what may be useful to me” [^1]. May I beautify my faith through good works, and in this way always fulfilling the will of the heavenly Father, make me worthy of eternal beatitude. Grant it to me, for the love of Mary Most Holy.

[^1]: "Or. Dom. Curr." Probably quoting the Divine Office.
