> **Vidi in omnibus vanitatem et afflictionem animi**  
*I saw in all things vanity, and vexation of mind*  
([Ees. 2, 11](https://vulgata.online/bible/Ees.2?ed=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Ees.2.11:vs))

***Summary** Irrationals who were created for the gratification of the senses find happiness in the goods of the earth, and in possessing them they desire nothing else. The human soul, however, created to love God and be united with Him, will never find peace in the pleasures of the senses, as experience also proves. Only God can fully satisfy the human soul. How fool are we, if, leaving the Lord, we run after the deceitful goods of the world!*

**I.** In this world all men work to achieve peace. Get tired the business man, the soldier, the lawyer, because they imagine that by doing their business, obtaining the desired promotion, winning the cause, they will make a fortune and find peace. Poor worldlings, who seek peace in the world, which it cannot give! Only God can give us peace: *Da servis tuis,* so prays the Church *illam quam mundus dare non potest pacem — “give your servants the peace that the world cannot give”*. No, the world with all its goods cannot satisfy man's heart, because man was not created for these goods, but only for God, from which it follows that only God can satisfy him. Animals, who were created for material goods, find peace in earthly goods. But the soul, which was created only to love God and to live with Him united, can never find peace in the pleasures of the senses; only God can make her fully content.

Saint Luke speaks of a rich man who, having obtained a bountiful harvest from his fields, said thus to himself: *“Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years. Take thy rest: eat, drink, make good cheer.” ([Lc. 12, 19](https://vulgata.online/bible/Lc.12?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Lc.12.19:vs))* But this wretch was treated as a fool. And rightly so, says St. Basil; or did he not wish to be equal to unclean beasts, and intended to content his soul with food, drink, and sensual delights? *Nunquid animate porcinam habes?*

In a word, so concludes St. Bernard, man can fill himself with the goods of the world, but never be satisfied with them. — The same Saint writing about this passage of the Gospel: *Ecce nos reliquimus omnia — “Behold, we have left everything”*, he adds that he saw in the world several madmen, who were all tormented by a great hunger. To be satisfied, some ate earth: image of the greedy; others sucked in air; image of the ambitious; others, who were close to a furnace, received the sparks that flew in their mouths: images of the cholerics; others, finally, on the edge of a swampy lagoon, drank from these corrupted waters: images of the dishonest. Then the Saint, addressing them, exclaims: Oh fools, don't you see that these things, far from satisfying hunger, can only incite it? *Haec potius famem provocative, quam extinguunt.*

**II.** The goods of the world have only the appearance of goods, that is why they cannot satisfy the human heart. *Comedistis et non estis satiati ([Ag. 1, 6](https://vulgata.online/bible/Ag.1?ed=DR2&vfn=DR2.Ag.1.6:vs)) — “You ate and you were not satisfied”* . So the miser, the more he acquires, and the dissolute, the more he wallows in his delights, the more he shows himself, at the same time, disgusted and eager for new pleasures. The same happens to the ambitious, who wants to be satiated with a smoke. If the goods of the earth could satisfy man, the rich, the monarchs would be perfectly happy, but experience proves otherwise. This is what Solomon declares, assuring us that he had denied nothing to the senses: *Vanitas vanitatum et omnia vanitas ([Ees. 1, 2](https://vulgata.online/bible/Ees.1?ed=DR2_VG&vfn=DR2.Ees.1.2:vs)) — “Vanity of vanities, and all is vanity.”*

What do I have left, my God, of the offenses I have done Thee, but pains, bitterness and titles to hell? The pain I suffer now does not displease me; on the contrary, console me, because it is the effect of your grace, and since you excite it in me, give me the confidence that you want to forgive me. What afflicts me is the bitterness with which I have filled you, O my Redeemer, who hast loved me so much. I deserved to be abandoned then, my Lord, but instead of abandoning me, I see that you offer me forgiveness and that you are the first to ask for peace. Yes, my Jesus, I want to make peace and I desire your grace more than any other good.

I regret having offended You, Infinite Goodness, and for that reason I would like to die of pain. I beg you, for the love you had for me, to the point of dying for me on the cross: forgive me and receive me in Your Heart. Change my heart in such a way that it will give You as much pleasure in the future as I have caused you displeasure in the past. For your love, I renounce all the joys that the world can offer me and I resolve to want to lose my life rather than your grace. Tell me what I have to do to be pleasant to You; I'm ready to do anything.

Pleasures, honors, riches, I renounce all; I only want You, my God, my joy, my treasure, my life, my love, my everything! Help me, O Lord, to be faithful to You. Make me love you, and dispose of me as you see fit.

Mary, my Mother and my Hope after Jesus, take me under your protection and make me belong entirely to God.