
**I\.**

Who in this world has so much patience with his equals as God has with us His creatures, in bearing with us and waiting for our repentance after the many offences we have committed against Him?

Ah, my God, had I thus offended my brother or my father, long ago would he have driven me from his face! O Father of Mercies, *cast me not away from thy face* (Ps. l. 13), but have pity on me.

*Thou hast mercy*, says the Wise Man, *upon all, because thou canst do all things, and overlookest the sins of men for the sake of repentance* (Wis. xi. 24). Men conceal their sense of the injuries which they receive, either because they are good, and know that it belongs not to themselves to punish those who offend them; or because they are unable, and have not the power, to revenge themselves. But to Thee, my God, it does belong to take revenge for the offences which are committed against Thy infinite Majesty; and Thou indeed art able to avenge Thyself whenever Thou pleasest, and dost Thou dissemble? Men despise Thee; they make promises to Thee and afterwards betray Thee; and dost Thou seem not to behold them, or as if Thou hadst little concern for Thy honour?

Thus, O Jesus, hast Thou done towards me. Ah! my God, my infinite Good, I will no longer despise Thee, I will no longer provoke Thee to chastise me. And why should I delay until Thou abandonest me in reality and condemnest me to hell? I am truly sorry for all my offences against Thee. I would that I had died rather than offended Thee! Thou art my Lord, Thou hast created me, and Thou hast redeemed me by Thy death; Thou alone hast loved me, Thou alone deservest to be loved, and Thou alone shall be the sole object of my love.

**II\.**

My soul, how could you be so ungrateful and so daring against your God? When you offended Him, could He not have suddenly called you out of life and punished you in hell? And yet He waited for you. Instead of chastising you, He preserved your life and gave you good things. But you, instead of being grateful to Him and loving Him for such excessive goodness, have continued to offend Him!

O my Lord, since Thou hast waited for me with so great mercy, I give Thee thanks. I am sorry for having offended Thee. I love Thee. I might at this hour have dwelt in hell where I could not have repented, nor have loved Thee. But now that I can repent, I grieve with my whole heart for having offended Thy infinite goodness; and I love Thee above all things, more than I love myself. Forgive me, and grant that from this day I may love no other but Thee, Who hast so loved me. May I live for Thee alone, my Redeemer, Who for me didst die upon the Cross! All my hopes are in Thy bitter Passion. O Mary, Mother of God, assist me by thy holy intercession.

