
**I\.**

It is of Faith that my soul is immortal, and that one day, when I least expect it, I must leave this world. I ought therefore to make provision for myself which will not fail with this life, but will be eternal even as I am eternal. Great things were done here in their lifetime by an Alexander or a Caesar; but for how many ages past have their glories ceased! And where are they now?

O my God, that I had always loved Thee! What now remains to me, after so many years spent in sin, but trouble and remorse of conscience? But since Thou dost allow me time to repair the evil I have done, behold me, Lord, ready to perform whatever Thou requirest of me, whatever Thou pleasest. I will spend the remainder of my days in bewailing my ungrateful conduct towards Thee, and in loving Thee with all my power, my God and my All and my only Good.

What will it avail me to have been happy in this world (if indeed true happiness can be attained without God), if hereafter I should be miserable for all eternity? But what folly it is, to know that I must die, and that an eternity either of happiness or misery awaits me after death, and that upon dying ill or well depends my being miserable or happy forever, and yet, not to adopt every means in my power to secure a good death!

Holy Spirit, enlighten and strengthen me to live always in Thy grace, until the hour of my departure. O infinite Goodness, I am sensible of the evil which I have done in offending Thee, and I detest it: I know that Thou alone art worthy of being loved, and I love Thee above all things.

**II\.**

In a word, all the good things of this life must end at our burial and be left behind, while we are mouldering in our graves. The shadow of death will cover and obscure all the grandeur and splendour of this world. Only he, then, can be called happy who serves God in this world, and by loving and serving Him acquires eternal happiness.

O Jesus, I am truly sorry for having hitherto made so little account of Thy love. Now I love Thee above all things, and I desire nothing else but to love Thee. Henceforth Thou only shalt be the sole object of my love; Thou only shalt be my All; and this is the only inheritance I ask of Thee, — to love Thee always, both in this life and in the next. By the merits of Thy bitter Passion, give me perseverance in all virtues. Mary, Mother of God, thou art my hope.

