
**I\.** *He that is a friend loveth at all times, and a brother is proved in distress* (Prov. xvii. 17).

We can never know our friends and relatives in the days of prosperity: it is only in the time of adversity that we see them in their true colours. People of the world never abandon a person in prosperity; but should misfortune overtake him, and particularly if death be at hand, they immediately forsake him. The Blessed Virgin does not act thus with her clients. In all their afflictions, and more particularly in the sorrows of death, the greatest that can be endured in this world, this good Lady and Mother not only does not abandon her faithful servants, but as during our exile on earth she is *our life*, so at our last hour she is *our sweetness*, by obtaining for us a peaceful, happy death. For from the day on which Mary had the privilege and the sorrow of assisting at the death of Jesus her Son Who was the Head of all the predestined, it has become her privilege to assist also at their deaths. And for this reason the Holy Church teaches us to beg this most Blessed Virgin to assist us especially at the moment of our death. *Pray for us sinners now and at the hour of our death*.

O how great are the sufferings of the dying! They suffer from remorse of conscience on account of past sins; from the fear of the approaching Judgment and from the uncertainty of salvation. Then it is that hell arms itself and spares no effort to gain the soul on the point of entering into eternity, for the devils know that only a short time remains in which to gain it, and that if they lose it then they lose it for ever. *The devil is come down unto you having great wrath knowing that he hath but a short time* (Apoc. xii. 12).

Oh, how quickly do the rebellious spirits fly from the presence of this great Queen! At the hour of death if only we have the protection of Mary what need we fear from all our infernal enemies? O you are indeed fortunate if at death you are bound in the sweet chains of the love of the Mother of God! These chains are chains of salvation.

O my most sweet Mother, how shall I die, poor sinner that I am? Even now the thought of that supreme moment in which I must expire and appear before the Judgment seat of God, and the remembrance of having myself so often written my condemnation by consenting to sin, makes me tremble. I am confounded and fear much for my salvation. O Mary, in the Blood of Jesus and in thy intercession is all my hope.

**II\.** A great lover of Mary said before expiring: \"O my Father, would that you could know the happiness I now enjoy from having served the most holy Mother of God! I cannot tell you the joy I now experience!\" Father Suarez in consequence of his devotion to Mary died with such peace and joy that he said: \"I could not have thought that death was so sweet!\" You will, without doubt, experience the same joy and contentment in death if you can then remember that you have loved this good Mother who cannot be otherwise than faithful to her children who were faithful in serving and honouring her by their Visits, Rosaries, Fasts, and still more by frequently thanking and praising her and often recommending themselves to her powerful protection.

Nor will this consolation be withheld even if you have been for a time a sinner, provided that from this day you are careful to live well and to serve this most gracious and benign Lady. Though you may have hitherto offended God she will procure you a sweet and happy death. And if at that moment you are greatly alarmed and lose confidence at the sight of your sins, she will come and encourage you as she has so many others. Let us, then, be of good heart though we be sinners; and let us feel assured that Mary will come and assist us at death, and by her presence comfort and console us, provided only that we serve her lovingly during the remainder of our life. Our Queen, addressing St. Matilda one day, promised to assist all her clients at death who, during life, had faithfully served her. \"I a most tender Mother,\" said Mary, \"will faithfully be present at the death of all who piously serve me and will console and protect them.\" O God, what a consolation will it be at that last moment of our lives, when our eternal lot has to be decided, to see the Queen of Heaven assisting and consoling us with the assurance of her protection!

O Consoler of the afflicted, console a poor creature who recommends himself to thee! The remorse of a burdened conscience fills me with affliction. I know not if I have sufficiently grieved for my sins. All my actions are imperfect and sullied. Hell awaits my death in order to accuse me: the outraged justice of God demands satisfaction. My Mother, what will become of me? If thou dost not help me I am lost. Wilt thou not succour me? O compassionate Virgin, console me! Obtain me true sorrow for my sins, and the strength to amend my life and be faithful to God during the rest of my days. When I am in the last agonies of death, O Mary, my hope, do not abandon me. Then, more than ever, help and encourage me that I may not despair at the sight of my sins which the devil will then place before my eyes. O my Queen, pardon my temerity and come thyself to console me by thy presence. Thou hast conferred this grace upon so many others, do not refuse it to me. If my boldness is great, greater still is thy goodness, for it seeks out the most miserable in order to console them. It is this that gives me confidence. For thy eternal glory, be it said that thou hast snatched an unhappy creature from hell to which he was already condemned and hast led him into thy kingdom. O yes, sweet Mother, I hope to have the happiness of remaining always at thy feet in Heaven, thanking and blessing and loving thee for ever! O Mary, I shall expect thee at my last hour. Deprive me not of this consolation. So may it be! Amen. Amen.

In many churches the devout Exercises for a Happy Death are performed once a month, and with great and lasting profit to innumerable souls. A Plenary Indulgence can be gained by all the faithful who assist. These Exercises can be performed privately by each in his or her own home, and, as St. Alphonsus suggests, it would be well for all to do so at least *once a month*. The following is the usual order of the devout Exercises publicly or privately performed.

1\. The Rosary of the Blessed Virgin is recited, or the Seven Joys and Sorrows of St. Joseph.

2\. Then the Sermon, or a *Reading*, or a *Meditation* on Death. See Vol I. Part 1. pp. 23, 70, 270. 274, 370. etc,: Part II, pp. 1, 16, 19, 26, 31, 34, 61, 68, 73. 87, 126, 163.

3\. Then the Prayer for a Happy Death, p. 381, after which a suitable hymn is sung — *e.g. God of Mercy and Compassion*, or a hymn to St. Joseph, patron of a happy death.

4\. The Blessed Sacrament is then exposed for Benediction as usual, and after the *O Salutaris Hostia* the *Protestation for Death* is recited, p. 383. Then the *Tantum Ergo*, etc.

Plenary Indulgence, ou the usual conditions, to all who on the fourth Sunday of the month assist at this devout Exercise in any Church of the Redemptorist Fathers. The prayers, \"Sorrows and Joys of St. Joseph,\" do not essentially belong to the Preparation for Death, and may therefore be omitted, They were composed by the Ven. Father Januarius Sarnelli, C.SS.R. (one of the first companions of St, Alphonsus), who in the year 1744 died at Naples in the odour of sanctity.

