
I. — ITS POWER

**I\.** *Ask and it shall be given you... for every one that asketh receiveth* (Luke xi. 9, 10).

In a thousand places in the Old and the New Testament, God promises to hear all who pray to Him. *Cry to me and I will hear thee* (Jer. xxxiii. 3). *Call upon me... and I will deliver thee* (Ps. xlix. 15). *If you ask anything in my name, that I will do* (Jo. xiv. 14). *You shall ask whatever you will, and it shall be done unto you* (Jo. xv. 7). Hence Theodoret has said that prayer is one, but can obtain all things. St. Bernard says that when we pray, the Lord will give either the grace we ask, or one that is more useful to us. The Prophet animates us to pray by assuring us that God is all mercy to those who invoke His aid. *Thou, O Lord, art sweet and mild and plenteous in mercy to all that call upon thee* (Ps. lxxxv. 5). The words of St. James are still more encouraging. *If any of you want wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth abundantly to all men and upbraideth not* (James i. 5). This Apostle tells us that when we pray to the Lord, He opens His hands and gives us more than we ask. *He giveth to all men abundantly, and upbraideth not*. He does not reproach us with the offences we have offered to Him; but, when we pray to Him, He appears to forget all the injuries we have done Him.

St. John Climacus used to say that prayer in a certain manner forces God to grant us whatsoever we ask of Him. \"Prayer piously offers violence to God.\" But it is, as Tertullian says, a violence which is pleasing to Him, and which He desires from us. Yes; for as St. Augustine says, God has a greater desire to give us His graces, than we have to receive them. The reason is, because God is of His own nature infinite Goodness. Hence He feels an infinite desire to impart His benefits to us. St. Mary Magdalen de Pazzi used to say that God feels as it were under an obligation to the soul that prays to Him; because by prayer it opens to Him the way by which He can satisfy His desire of dispensing His graces to us.

O Eternal God, I adore Thee and I thank Thee for all the benefits Thou hast bestowed upon me, — for having created me, for having redeemed me, through Jesus Christ, for having made me a Christian, for having waited for me when I was in sin, and for having so often pardoned me. Ah, my God, I should never have offended Thee, if in my temptations I had recourse to Thee.

**II\.** David says that the goodness of God, in instantly hearing all who pray to Him, proves that God was his true God. *In what day so ever I shall call upon thee, behold, I know thou art my God* (Ps. lv. 10). Some, observes St. Bernard, complain that God fails them; but the Lord may far more justly complain that many fail Him when they neglect to ask His graces. Of this precisely the Redeemer appears to have complained one day to His disciples. *Hitherto you have not asked anything in my name: ask and you shall receive, that your joy may be full* (Jo. xvi. 24). As if He said: Do not complain of Me if you do not enjoy complete happiness; complain of yourselves for not having asked My graces. Ask Me for them henceforth, and you shall be satisfied.

There is no exercise more conducive to salvation than to pray always and say: Lord, assist me! *Incline unto my aid, O God* (Ps. lxix. 2). The Venerable Paul Segneri used to say that in his Meditations he was at first accustomed to spend his time in *pious affections*; but, having afterwards learned the great efficacy of prayer, he endeavoured generally to employ himself in *petitions to God*. Let us always do the same. We have a God Who loves us to excess, and Who is solicitous for our salvation, and therefore He is ever ready to hear all who ask His graces. The earthly princes, says St. Chrysostom, give audience only to a few; but God gives audience to all who wish.

I thank Thee, O God, for the light by which Thou now makest me understand that my salvation consists in praying to Thee and in asking graces of Thee. Behold I entreat Thee in the Name of Jesus Christ, to give me a great sorrow for my sins, holy perseverance in Thy grace, a good death, Heaven, but above all, the great gift of Thy love and perfect resignation to Thy most holy will. I well know that I do not deserve these graces, but Thou has promised them to all who ask them of Thee through the merits of Jesus Christ. Through these merits I hope and ask for them. O Mary, thy prayers are always heard; pray for me.

