
**I\.** Behold how Judas, arriving in the Garden together with the soldiers, advances, embraces his Master, and kisses Him. Jesus suffers him to kiss Him; but, knowing already his evil intent, could not refrain from complaining of this most unjust treachery, saying, *Judas, betrayest thou the son of man with a kiss?* (Luke xxii. 48). Then those insolent servants crowd round Jesus, lay hands upon Him and bind Him as a villain: *The servants of the Jews apprehended Jesus, and bound him.* (John xviii. 12).

Ah, me! what do I see? A God bound! By whom? By men; by worms created by Himself. Angels of Paradise, what say ye to it? And Thou, my Jesus, why dost Thou allow Thyself to be bound? What, says St. Bernard, have the bonds of slaves and of the guilty to do with Thee, who art the Holy of Holies, the King of kings, and the Lord of lords? \" O King of kings and Lord of lords, what hast Thou to do with chains?\"

But if men bind Thee, wherefore dost Thou not loosen and free Thyself from the torments and death which they are preparing for Thee? But I understand it. It is not, O my Lord, these ropes which bind Thee. It is only love which keeps Thee bound, and constrains Thee to suffer and die for us: \"O Charity,\" exclaims St. Laurence Justinian, \"how strong is thy chain, by which God was able to be bound!\" O Divine Love, thou only wast able to bind a God, and conduct Him to death for the love of men.

**II\.**

\"Look O man,\" says St. Bonaventure, \"at these dogs dragging Him along, and the Lamb, like a victim meekly following without resistance. One seizes, another binds Him; another drives, another strikes Him.\" They carry our sweet Saviour, thus bound, first to the house of Annas, then to that of Caiphas; where Jesus, being asked by that wicked one about His disciples and His doctrine, replied that He had not spoken in private, but in public, and that they who were standing round about well knew what He had taught: *I spoke openly; lo, these know what I said.* (John xviii. 21). But at this answer one of those servants, treating Him as if too bold, gave Him a blow on the cheek: *One of the servants standing by gave Jesus a blow, saying, Answerest thou the high-priest so?* (John xviii. 22). Here exclaims St. Jerome: \"Ye Angels, how is it that ye are silent? How long can such patience withhold you in your astonishment?\"

Ah, my Jesus, how could an answer so just and modest deserve such an affront in the presence of so many people? The worthless high-priest, instead of reproving the insolence of this audacious fellow, praises him, or at least by signs, approves. And Thou, my Lord, sufferest all this to compensate for the affronts which I, a wretch, have offered to the Divine Majesty by my sins. My Jesus, I thank Thee for it. Eternal Father, pardon me by the merits of Jesus.

