
XXI.-” CHARITY IS PATIENT.”-THE SOUL THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST LOVES TO SUFFER.

**I\.** This earth is the place for meriting, and therefore it is a place for suffering. Our true country, where God has prepared for us repose in everlasting joy, is Paradise.

We have but a short time to stay in this world; but in this short time we have many labours to undergo: _Man born of a woman, living for a short time, is filled with many miseries_-(Job xiv. 1). We must suffer, and all must suffer: be they just or be they sinners, each one must carry his cross. He that carries it with patience is saved; he that carries it with impatience is lost. St. Augustine says the same miseries send some to Paradise and some to hell: “One and the same blow lifts the good to glory and reduces the bad to ashes.” The same Saint observes that by the test of suffering the chaff in the Church of God is distinguished from the wheat: he that humbles himself under tribulations, and is resigned to the will of God, is wheat for Paradise; he that grows haughty and is enraged, and so forsakes God, is chaff for hell.

**II\.** On the day when the cause of our salvation shall be decided, our life must be found conformable to the life of Jesus Christ, if we would enjoy the happy sentence of the predestined: _For whom he foreknew he also predestinated to be made conformable to the image of his Son_ (Rom. viii. 29). This was the end for which the Eternal Word descended upon earth, to teach us, by His example, to carry with patience the cross which God sends us: _Christ suffered for us_, wrote St. Peter, _leaving you an example, that you should follow his steps_-(l Pet. ii. 21}. So that Jesus Christ suffered on purpose to encourage us to suffer. O God! what a life was that of Jesus Christ! a life of ignominy and pain! The Prophet calls our Redeemer _despised, and the most abject of men, a man of sorrows_-(Is. liii. 3}. A man held in contempt, and treated as the lowest, the vilest among men, a man of sorrows; yes, for the life of Jesus Christ was made up of hardships and afflictions.


