
XXIX.-“CHARITY IS KIND”- HE THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST LOVES MEEKNESS

**I\.** And more than this, the superior should be kind even in the correction of faults. It is one thing to correct with firmness, and another with harshness. It is needful at times to correct with firmness, when the fault is serious, and especially if it be repeated after the subject has already been admonished of it; but let us always be on our guard against harsh and angry correction; he that corrects with anger does more harm than good. This is that bitter zeal reproved by St. James. Some make a boast of keeping their family in order by severity, and they say it is the only successful method of treatment; but St. James speaks not so: _But if you have bitter zeal … glory not_-(James iii. 1.4). If on some rare occasion it be necessary to speak a cross word in order to bring the offender to a proper sense of his fault, yet in the end we ought invariably to leave him with a gentle countenance and a word of kindness. Wounds must be healed after the fashion of the good Samaritan in the Gospel, with wine and oil. “But as oil,” said St. Francis de Sales, “always swims on the surface of all other liquids, so must meekness prevail over all our actions.” And when it occurs that the person under correction is agitated, then the reprehension must be deferred till his anger has subsided, or else we should only increase his indignation. The Canon Regular St. John said: “When the house is on fire, one must not cast wood into the flames.”

**II\.** _You know not of what spirit you are_-(Luke ix. 55). Such were the words of Jesus Christ to His disciples James and John, when they would bring down chastisements on the Samaritans for expelling them from their country. Ah, said the Lord to them, and what spirit is this? This is not My spirit, which is sweet and gentle; for I am come not to destroy but to save souls: _The Son of man came not to destroy souls, but to save_-(Luke ix. 56). And would you induce Me to destroy them? Oh, be silent, and never make the like request to Me, for such is not according to My spirit. And, in fact, with what meekness did Jesus Christ treat the adulteress! _Woman_, said He, _hath no man condemned thee?_ _Neither will I condemn thee!_ _Go, and now sin no more_-(John viii. 10, 11.). He was satisfied with merely warning her not to sin again, and sent her away in peace. With what meekness, again, did He seek the conversion of the Samaritan woman, and so, in fact, converted her! He first asked her to give Him to drink; then He said to her: If thou didst know who he is that saith to thee: “Give me to drink” and then He revealed to her that He was the expected Messiah. And again, with what meekness did he strive to convert the impious Judas, admitting him to eat from the same dish with Him, washing his feet and admonishing him in the very act of His betrayal: _Judas, dost thou betray the Son of Man with a kiss?_-(Luke xxii. 48). And see how He converted Peter after his denial of Him! _And the Lord turning, looked on Peter_-(Luke xxii. 61). On leaving the house of the high-priest, without making him a single reproach, He cast on him a look of tenderness, and thus converted him; and so effectually did He convert him that, during his whole life long, Peter never ceased to bewail the injury he had done to His Master.


