
XXVII.-“CHARITY IS KIND”-HE THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST LOVES MEEKNESS

**I\.** St. Mary Magdalen de Pazzi made the generous declaration that there could not be found in the whole world an affliction so severe that she would not gladly bear when the thought that it came from God; and, in fact, during the five years of severe trial which the Saint underwent, was enough to restore peace to her soul to remember that is was by the will of God that she so suffered. Ah, God, that infinite treasure is cheaply purchased at any cost! Father Hippolytus Durazzo used to say: “Purchase God at what cost you will; He can never be dear.”

O my most loving Redeemer, enable me to know how great a Good Thou art, and how great is the love Thou hast borne me in order to oblige me to love Thee! Ah, my God, suffer me not to live any longer unmindful of so much goodness! Enough have I offended Thee, I will never leave Thee again; I wish to employ all the remainder of my days in loving Thee, and in pleasing thee. My Jesus, my Love, lend me Thine aid; help a sinner who wishes to love Thee and to be wholly Thine. O Mary, my hope, thy Son hears thee; pray to Him in my behalf, and obtain for me grace of loving Him perfectly!

**II\.** Let us then beseech God to make us worthy of His love; for if we did but once perfectly love Him, all the goods of this earth would seem to us but as smoke and dirt, and we should relish ignominies and afflictions as delights. Let us hear what St. John Chrysostom says of a soul wholly given up to Almighty God: “He who has attained the perfect love of God seems to be alone on the earth-he no longer cares for either glory or ignominy- he scorns temptations and afflictions-he loses all relish and appetite for created things. And as nothing in this world brings him any support or repose, he goes incessantly in search of his Beloved without ever feeling wearied; so that when he toils, when he eats, when he is watching, or sleeping, in every action and every word all his thoughts and desires are fixed upon finding his beloved, because his heart is where his treasure is.”

My dear and beloved Jesus, my Treasure, I have deserved by my offences never more to be allowed to love Thee; but by Thy merits, I entreat Thee, make me worthy of Thy pure love. I love Thee above all things; and I repent with my whole heart of having ever despised Thee, and driven Thee from my soul; but now I love Thee more than myself; I love Thee with all my heart.

O Infinite Good! I love Thee, I love Thee, I love Thee, and I have not a wish besides that of loving Thee perfectly; nor have I a fear besides that of ever seeing myself deprived of Thy love.


