
XXIV.-” CHARITY IS PATIENT.”-THE SOUL THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST LOVES TO SUFFER

**I.**

St. Joseph Calasanctius used to say: “All suffering is slight to gain Heaven.” And the Apostle had already said the same: _The sufferings of this time are not worthy to be compared with the glory to come, that shall be revealed in us_-(Rom. viii. 18). It would be a great gain for us to endure all the torments of all the Martyrs during our whole lives in order to enjoy one single moment of the bliss of Paradise. With what readiness, then, should we embrace our crosses, when we know that the sufferings of this transitory life will gain for us an everlasting beatitude! _That which is at present momentary and light of our tribulation, worketh for us above measure exceedingly an eternal weight of glory-_(2 Cor. iv. 17). St. Agapitus, while still a mere boy in years, was threatened by the tyrant to have his head covered with a red-hot helmet; on which he replied: “And what better fortune could possibly befall me than to lose my head here, to have it crowned hereafter in Heaven?” This thought made St. Francis exclaim: “I look for such a meed of bliss, That all my pains seem happiness.”

But whoever desires the crown of Paradise must needs combat and suffer: _if we suffer, we shall also reign_-(2 Tim. ii. 12). We cannot get a reward without merit; and no merit is to be had without patience: _He is not crowned, except he strive lawfully_-(2 Tim. ii. 5). And the person that strives with the greatest patience shall have the greatest reward.

What a strange thing it is! When the temporal goods of this world are in question, worldlings endeavour to procure as much as they can; but when it is a question of the goods of eternal life, they say: “It is enough if we get a little corner in Heaven!” Such is not the language of the Saints; they are satisfied with anything whatever in this life, nay more, they strip themselves of all earthly goods; but concerning eternal goods, they strive to obtain them in as large a measure as possible. I would ask which of the two act with more wisdom and prudence?

**II.**

But even with regard to the present life it is certain that he who suffers with most patience enjoys the greatest peace. It was a saying of St. Philip Neri that in this world there is no Purgatory; it is either all Paradise or all hell: he that patiently supports tribulations enjoys a Paradise; he that does not do so suffers a hell. Yes, for, as St. Teresa writes, he that embraces the crosses sent him by God feels them not. St. Francis de Sales, finding himself on one occasion beset on every side with tribulations, said: “For some time back the severe oppositions and secret contrarieties which have befallen me afford me so sweet a peace that nothing can equal it; and they give me such an assurance that my soul will ere long be firmly united with God that I can say with all truth that they are the sole ambition, the sole desire of my heart.” And, indeed, peace can never be found by one who leads an irregular life, but only by him who lives in union with God and with His blessed will. A certain missionary of a Religious Order, while in the Indies, was one day standing to witness the execution of a person under sentence of death, and already on the scaffold; the criminal called the missionary to him, and said: “You must know, Father, that I was once a member of your Order. Whilst I observed the rules I led a very happy life; but when, afterwards, I began to relax in the strict observance of them, I immediately experienced pain in everything; so much so that I abandoned the Religious life and gave myself up to vice, which has finally reduced me to the melancholy pass in which you at present behold me.” And in conclusion he said, “I tell you this that my example may be a warning to others.” The venerable Father Lewis da Ponte said: “Take the sweet things of this life for bitter, and the bitter for sweet; and so you will be in the constant enjoyment of peace. Yes, for though the sweet are pleasant to sense they invariably leave behind them the bitterness of remorse of conscience, on account of the imperfect satisfaction which, for the most part, they afford; but the bitter when taken with patience from the hand of God, become sweet and dear to the souls who love Him.”


