
XXXV.- “CHARITY ENVIETH NOT”-HE THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST DOES NOT ENVY THE GREAT ONES OF THE WORLD, BUT ONLY THOSE WHO ARE GREATER LOVERS OF JESUS CHRIST.

**I\.** Many, on the other hand, are willing to serve God, but it must be in such an employment, in such a place, with such companions, or under such circumstances, or else they either quit the work or do it with a bad grace. Such persons have not freedom of spirit, but are slaves of self-love; and on that account gain very little merit by what they do: they lead a troubled life, because the yoke of Jesus Christ becomes a burden to them. The true lovers of Jesus Christ care only to do what pleases Him; and for the reason that it pleases Him, when He wills, and where He wills, and in the manner He wills, and whether He wishes to employ them in a state of life honoured by the world or in a life of obscurity and insignificance. This is what is meant by loving Jesus with a pure love; and in this we ought to exercise ourselves, battling against the craving of our self-love, which would urge us to seek important and honourable functions, and such as suit our inclinations.

I love Thee, my Jesus; I love Thee with all my soul; I love Thee more than myself, O true and only Lover of my soul; for what friend but Thee has ever sacrificed his life for me? I weep to think that I have been so ungrateful to Thee. Unhappy that I am! I was already lost; but I trust that by Thy grace Thou hast restored me to life. And this shall be my life, to love Thee always, my Sovereign Good. Make me love Thee, O infinite love, and I ask Thee for nothing more! O Mary, my Mother, accept me for thy servant, and gain acceptance for me with Jesus thy Son.

**II\.** We must, moreover, be detached from all exercises, even spiritual ones, when the Lord wishes us to be occupied in other works of His good pleasure. One day, Father Alvarez, finding himself surrounded with business, was anxious to get rid of it in order to go and pray, because it seemed to him that during that time he was not with God, but our Lord then said to him: “Though I do not keep thee with Me, let it suffice thee that I make use of thee.” This is a profitable lesson for those who are sometimes disturbed at being obliged, by obedience or by charity, to leave their accustomed devotions; let them be assured that such disturbances on these and like occasions do not come from God, but either from the devil or from self-love. “Give pleasure to God, and die.” This is the grand maxim of the Saints.

O my Eternal God, I offer Thee my whole heart; but what sort of heart, O God, is it I offer Thee? A heart created, indeed, to love Thee; but which, instead of loving Thee, has so many times rebelled against Thee. But behold, my Jesus, if there was a time when my heart rebelled against Thee, now it is deeply grieved and penitent for the displeasure it has given Thee. Yes, my dear Redeemer, I am sorry for having despised Thee; and I am determined to do all to obey Thee, and to love Thee at every cost. Oh, draw me wholly to Thy love; do this for the sake of the love which made Thee die for me on the Cross.


