
### XXXV.–HE THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST IS NEVER ANGRY WITH HIS NEIGHBOUR

**I\.** _From whence are wars? … Are they not from your concupiscences?_–(James iv. 1, 2). When we are made angry by some contradiction, we fancy we shall find relief and quiet by giving vent to our anger in actions, or at least in words: but we are mistaken, it is not so; for after having done so, we shall find that we are much more disturbed than before. Whoever desires to persevere in uninterrupted peace must beware of ever yielding to ill-humour. And whenever anyone feels himself attacked by this ill-humour, he must do his utmost to banish it immediately; and he must not go to rest with it in his heart, but must divert himself from it by the perusal of some book, by singing some devout canticle, or by conversing on some pleasant subject with a friend. The Holy Spirit says: _Anger resteth in the bosom of a fool_–(Eccles. vii. 10). Anger remains a long time in the hearts of fools, who have little love for Jesus Christ; but if by stealth it should ever enter into the hearts of the true lovers of Jesus Christ, it is quickly dislodged, and does not remain. A soul that cordially loves the Redeemer never feels in a bad humour, because, as she desires only what God desires, she has all she wishes for, and consequently is ever tranquil and well-balanced. The Divine will tranquilises her in every misfortune that occurs; and thus she is able at all times to observe meekness towards all. But we cannot acquire this meekness without a great love for Jesus Christ. In fact, we know by experience that we are not meeker and gentler towards others, except when we feel an increased tenderness towards Jesus Christ.

**II\.** But since we cannot constantly experience this tenderness, we must prepare ourselves, in our mental prayer, to bear the crosses that may befall us. This was the practice of the Saints; and so they were ever ready to receive with patience and meekness, injuries, blows, and chastisements. When we meet with an insult from our neighbour, unless we are well practised in self-restraint, we shall find it extremely difficult to know what course to take in order not to yield to the force of anger. At the time, our passion will make it appear but reasonable for us to make an angry retort to the person who affronts us; but St. John Chrysostom says that it is not the right way to quench the fire which is raging in the mind of our neighbour by the fire of all indignant reply; to do so will only enkindle it the more: “One fire is not extinguished by another.” Someone may say: But why should I use courtesy and gentleness towards an impertinent fellow that insults me without cause? But St. Francis de Sales replies: “We must practise meekness, not only with reason, but against reason.”

We must therefore endeavour, on such occasions, to make a kind answer; and in this way we shall check the fire: _A mild answer breaketh wrath_-(Prov. xv. 1). But when the mind is troubled, the best expedient will be to keep silence. St. Bernard writes: “The eye troubled by anger sees not straight.” When the eye is dimmed with passion, it no longer distinguishes between what is, and what is not, unjust; anger is like a veil drawn over the eyes, so that we can no longer discern between right and wrong; wherefore we must, like St. Francis de Sales, make a compact with our tongue: “I have made a compact with my tongue,” he wrote, “never to speak while my heart is disturbed.”


