
*\"Charity hopeth all things\"*

HE THAT LOVES JESUS CHRIST HOPES FOR ALL THINGS FROM HIM

**I\.** Hope increases Charity, and Charity increases Hope. Hope in the Divine goodness undoubtedly gives an increase to our love of Jesus Christ. St. Thomas says that in the very moment when we hope to receive some benefit from a person, we begin also to love him. On this account, the Lord forbids us to put our trust in creatures: *Put not your trust in princes* (Ps. odv. 2). Further, He pronounces a curse on those who do so: *Cursed be the man that trusteth in man* (Jer. xvii. 5). God does not wish us to trust in creatures, because He does not wish us to fix our love upon them. Hence St. Vincent de Paul said: \"Let us beware of reposing too much confidence in men; for when God beholds us thus leaning on them for support, He Himself withdraws from us. On the other hand, the more we trust in God, the more we shall advance in His holy love\": *I have run the way of thy commandments, when thou didst enlarge my heart* (Ps. cxviii. 32). Oh, how rapidly does that soul advance in perfection who has her heart dilated with confidence in God! She flies rather than runs; for by making God the foundation of all her Hope she flings aside her own weakness, and borrows the strength of God Himself, which is communicated to all who place confidence in Him: *They that hope in the Lord shall renew their strength, and they shall take wings as eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint* (Is. xl. 31). The eagle is the bird that soars nearest the sun; in like manner, the soul that has God for her trust becomes detached from the earth, and more and more united to God by love.

**II\.** Now as Hope increases the love of God, so does love help to increase hope; for charity makes us the adopted *sons of God*. In the natural order we are the work of His hands; but in the supernatural order we are made sons of God, and partakers of the Divine nature through the merits of Jesus Christ; as the Apostle St. Peter writes: *That by these you may be made partakers of the divine nature* (2 Peter i. 4). And if Charity makes us the sons of God, it consequently makes us heirs of Heaven, according to St. Paul: *And if sons, heirs also* (Rom. viii. 17). Now a son claims the right of abiding under the paternal roof; an heir is entitled to the property; and thus Charity increases the Hope of Paradise; so that the souls that love God cry out incessantly: *Thy kingdom come! Thy kingdom come!*

