
**I\.** When the Prophets spoke of the first advent, in which He would accomplish the work of Redemption, they most clearly foretold that the Redeemer would live upon this earth a life of poverty and contempt. This was what was written by the Prophet Zacharias, when speaking of the life of Jesus Christ: *Behold thy king cometh to thee the just one, and the Saviour; he is poor, and sitteth upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass* (Zach. ix. 9). All this was specially fulfilled when He entered Jerusalem sitting upon a young ass, and was honorably received as the desired Messias, as St. John writes: *And Jesus found an ass and sat upon it, as it is written, Fear not, daughter of Sion, behold thy king cometh to thee, sitting upon an ass\'s colt* (Jo. xii. 14,15). We know, also that He was poor from the time of His birth, being born in Bethlehem, a place of no celebrity, and in a cave: *And thou, Bethlehem Ephrata, art little among the thousands of Juda; from thee cometh forth to me he who is to be the ruler of Israel; and his going forth is from the beginning and from the days of eternity* (Mich. v. 2). This Prophecy, also, is referred to by St. Matthew and St. John. Further, also, the Prophet Osee writes: *From Egypt I have called my son* (Os. xi. 1), which was fulfilled when Jesus Christ was carried as an Infant into Egypt, where He remained about seven years, as a stranger in the midst of a barbarous race, far from His kindred and friends, a thing sufficient to make His life one of poverty. And so, also, He continued to live the life of the poor when He had returned to Judea. He Himself foretold by the mouth of David, that throughout His whole life He would be poor and afflicted: *I am poor, and in labours from my youth* (Ps. lxxxvii. 16).

**II\.** Almighty God could not consider His justice truly satisfied by all the sacrifices men could offer, even of their own lives; and therefore He ordained that His own Son should take a human body, and become a Victim worthy to reconcile God with men, and obtain salvation for them. *Sacrifice and oblation thou wouldst not, but a body hast thou prepared for me* (Heb. x. 5). The only-begotten Son offered Himself willingly to be a sacrifice for us, and came down on earth in order that He might accomplish the sacrifice with His death, and thus complete the Redemption of man. *Then said I: Behold, I come. In the head of the book it is written of me that I should do thy will, O God!* (Heb. x. 5-7).

The Lord said, speaking to sinners, *Why should I strike you any more?* (Is. i. 5). This God said in order that we should understand that, however much He might punish those who offended Him, their punishments would never be sufficient to make reparation to His offended honour; and therefore He committed it to His own Son to make satisfaction for the sins of men, because His Son alone could give worthy satisfaction to Divine justice. Therefore He declared, by Isaias speaking of Jesus being made a Victim for our sins, *For the wickedness of my people I have stricken him* (Is. liii. 8). Nor was God satisfied with a light satisfaction, but chose to see His Son consumed with torments: *The Lord was pleased to bruise him in infirmity* (Is. liii. 10).

O my Jesus, O Victim of love, consumed by pangs upon the Cross to atone for my sins, I am ready to die with grief when I think that I have so often despised Thee, after Thou hast loved me so much. Oh, suffer it not that I should continue longer ungrateful for Thy goodness. Draw me wholly to Thee; grant it through the merits of that Blood which Thou hast poured forth for me.


