
I. EXCELLENCE OF THIS VIRTUE

Our whole perfection consists in loving God Who is in Himself most lovely: *Charity is the bond of perfection* (Col. iii. 14). But, then, all perfection in the love of God consists in the union of our own with His most holy will. This, indeed, is the principal effect of love, as St. Dionysius the Areopagite observes, \"such a union of the wills of those who love as makes them one and the same will.\" And, therefore, the more united a person is with the Divine will, so much greater will be his love. It is quite true that mortifications, meditations, Communions, and works of charity towards others are pleasing to God. But when is this the case? When they are done in conformity to God\'s will; for otherwise, not only does He not approve them, but He abominates and punishes them. Take the case of two servants, one of whom labours hard and incessantly all day long, but does everything after his own fashion; while the other may not work as hard, but acts always in obedience to orders. Is it not certain that it is the latter, and not the former, who pleases his master? In what respect can any works of ours tend to the glory of God, where they are not done according to His good pleasure? It is not *sacrifices* that the Lord desires, says the Prophet to Saul, but *obedience* to His will: *Doth the Lord desire holocausts and victims, and not rather that the voice of the Lord should be obeyed* (1 Kings, xv. 22). To refuse to obey is like the crime of idolatry. He who will act according to his own will, and independently of God\'s, commits a kind of idolatry; since instead of worshipping the Divine will, he, in a certain sense, worships his own.

**II\.**

The greatest glory, then, that we can give to God is the fulfilment of His holy will in everything. This is what our Redeemer, Whose purpose in coming upon earth was the establishment of the glory of God, principally came to teach by His example. See how Jesus addresses His Eternal Father: *Sacrifice and oblation, thou wouldst not; but a body thou hast fitted to me... then said I: Behold, I come — that I should do thy will, O God* (Heb. x. 5). Thou hast refused to accept the victims which mankind have offered Thee. It is Thy will that I should sacrifice to Thee the body which Thou hast given Me; lo, I am ready to perform Thy will! And hence it is that Jesus so often declares He had come upon earth not to fulfil His own, but His Father\'s will only: *I came down from heaven, not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me* (Jo. vi. 38). And on this account Jesus wished that the world might know the love He bore His Father, from the obedience to His will which He manifested in sacrificing Himself upon the Cross for the salvation of mankind; just as He said Himself in the Garden when going forth to meet His enemies who had come to take Him and lead Him away to death: *That the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father hath given me commandment, so do I; Arise, let ye go hence!* (Jo. xiv. 31). And for this reason, too, He said He would recognize as His very own brother him who acted according to the Divine will: *Whosoever shall do the will of my Father, he is my brother* (Matt. xii. 50).

\*This is a golden treatise that seems rather to have been inspired from Heaven than to have emanated from the human mind. The holy author himself, St. Alphonsus, used often to read it. He constantly practised the wise maxims it contains and always endeavoured to inculcate its practice on others. He was accustomed to say: \"The Saints became Saints because they always remained united to the will of God.\" When the Saint\'s eyesight began to fail, him, he took care to have this little treatise read to him. — ED.

