
MARY AN ADVOCATE WHO IS ABLE TO SAVE ALL

**I\.** So great is the authority that mothers possess over their sons, that even if they are monarchs, and have absolute dominion over every person in their kingdom, yet never can mothers become the subjects of their sons. It is true that Jesus now in Heaven sits at the right hand of the Father, that is, as St. Thomas explains it, even as Man, on account of the hypostatic union with the Person of the Divine Word. He has supreme dominion over all, and also over Mary; it will nevertheless be always true that for a time, when He was living in this world, He was pleased to humble Himself and to be subject to Mary, as we are told by St. Luke: *And he was subject to them.* (Luke, ii. 51). And still more, says St. Ambrose, Jesus Christ having deigned to make Mary His Mother, inasmuch as He was her Son, He was truly obliged to obey her. And for this reason, says Richard of St. Laurence, while \"of other Saints we say that they are with God; but of Mary alone can it be said that she was so far favoured as to be not only herself submissive to the will of God, but even that God was subject to her will.\" And whereas of all other virgins, remarks the same author, we must say that *they follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth* (Apoc. xiv. 4), of the Blessed Virgin Mary we can say that the Lamb follows her, having become subject to her.

And here we say, that although Mary, now in Heaven, can no longer command her Son, nevertheless her prayers are always the prayers of a Mother, and consequently most powerful to obtain whatever she asks. \"Mary,\" says St. Bonaventure, \"has this great privilege, that with her Son she above all the Saints is most powerful to obtain whatever she wills.\" And why? Precisely for this reason — they are the prayers of His Mother.

**II\.** St. Peter Damian says the Blessed Virgin can do whatever she pleases both in Heaven and on earth. She is able to raise even those who are in despair to confidence; and he addresses her in these words: \"All power is given to thee in Heaven and on earth, and nothing is impossible to thee who canst raise those who are in despair to the hope of salvation.\" And then he adds that \"when the Mother goes to seek a favour for us from Jesus Christ,\" Whom the Saint calls the Golden Altar of Mercy, at which sinners obtain pardon, \"her Son esteems her prayers so greatly, and is so desirous to satisfy her, that when she prays it seems as if she rather commanded than prayed, and was rather a queen than a handmaid.\" Jesus is pleased thus to honour His beloved Mother who honoured Him so much during her life by immediately granting all that she asks or desires. This is beautifully confirmed by St. Germanus, who, addressing our Blessed Lady, says: \"Thou art the Mother of God, and all-powerful to save sinners, and with God thou needest no other recommendation; for thou art the Mother of true Life.\"

\"At the command of Mary, all obey, even God.\" St. Bernardine fears not to utter this sentence; meaning, indeed, to say that God grants the prayers of Mary as if they were commands. And hence St. Anselm addressing Mary says: \"Our Lord, O most holy Virgin, has exalted thee to such a degree that by His favour all things that are possible to Him should be possible to thee.\" \"For thy protection is omnipotent, O Mary,\" says Cosmas of Jerusalem. \"Yes, Mary is omnipotent,\" repeats Richard of St. Laurence; \"for the queen by every law enjoys the same privileges as the king. And as,\" he adds, \"the power of the son and that of the mother is the same, a mother is made omnipotent by an omnipotent Son.\" \"And thus,\" says St. Antoninus, \"God has placed the whole Church, not only under the patronage, but even under the dominion of Mary.\"

