
We are to have this certain confidence that in obeying our Spiritual Father, we are sure of not sinning. \"The sovereign remedy for the scrupulous,\" says St. Bernard, \"is a blind obedience to their confessor.\" John Gerson relates, that the same Saint told one of his disciples, who was scrupulous, to go and celebrate, and take his word for it. He went, and was cured of his scruples. \"But a person may answer,\" says Gerson, \"Would to God I had a St. Bernard for my director! Mine is one of indifferent wisdom.\" And he answers, \"Thou dost err, whoever thou art that so speakest; for thou hast not given thyself into the hands of the man because he is well read, etc., but because he is placed over thee; wherefore obey him not as man, but as God.\" Hence St. Teresa has well said: \"Let the soul accept the confessor with a determination to think no more of personal excuses, but to trust in the words of the Lord: *He that heareth you heareth me*.

Hence St. Francis de Sales, speaking of direction from a Spiritual Father in order to walk securely in the way of God, says: \"This is the very counsel of all counsels.\" \"Search as much as you will,\" says the saintly Father John of Avila, \"you will in no way discover the will of God so surely as by the path of that humble obedience which is so much recommended and practised by the devout of former times.\" Thus, too, Father Alvarez said: \"Even if the Spiritual Father should err, the obedient soul is secure from error, because it rests on the judgment of him whom God has given it as a superior.\" And Father Nieremberg writes to the same effect: \"Let the soul obey the confessor; and then, although the thing itself were faulty, he does not sin who does it with the intention of obeying him who holds the place of God in his regard, persuading himself, as is, indeed, the case, that he is bound to obey him,\" who is the interpreter of the Divine will.

**II\.** St. Francis of Sales gives three maxims which bring great consolation to scrupulous souls.

1\. An obedient soul has never been lost; 2. We ought to rest satisfied with knowing from our Spiritual Father that we are going on well, without seeking a personal knowledge of it; 3. The best thing is to walk on blindly through all the darkness and perplexity of this life, under the Providence of God. And therefore all the Doctors of Morals conclude, in general, with St. Antoninus, Navarro, Silvester, etc., that obedience to the confessor is the safest rule for walking securely in the ways of God. F. Tirillo, and F. La Croix say that this is the common doctrine of the holy Fathers and masters of the spiritual life.

The scrupulous should know that not only are they safe in obeying, but that they are bound to obey their director, and to despise the scruple, acting with all freedom in the midst of their doubts. This is the teaching of Natalis Alexander: That scruples ought to be despised when one has the judgment of a prudent, pious, and learned director; and that one ought to act against them. \"He who acts against scruples does not sin,\" says Father Wigandt, \"nay, sometimes it is a precept to do so, especially when backed by the judgment of the confessor.\" So do these authors speak, although they belong to the rigid school; so, too, theologians in general; and the reason is, that if the scrupulous man goes on in his scruples, he is in danger of placing grievous impediments in the way of satisfying his obligations, or, at least, of making spiritual progress; and, moreover, of even losing his mind, losing his health, and destroying his soul by despair or by relaxation. Hence St. Antoninus agrees with Gerson in thus reproving the scrupulous soul who, through a vain fear, is not obedient in overcoming his scruples: \"Beware lest, from overmuch desire to walk securely, thou fall and destroy thyself.\"

