
In the second place it was becoming that the Son should preserve Mary from sin, as being His Mother. No man can choose his mother; but should such a thing ever be granted to any one, who is there who, if able to choose a queen, would wish for a slave? Or if able to choose a friend of God, would wish for an enemy? If, then, the Son of God alone could choose a Mother according to His own Heart and His own liking, we must consider, as a matter of course, that He chose one worthy of God. St. Bernard says, \"that the Creator of men becoming man, must have Himself selected a Mother who He knew would be worthy of Him.\" As it was becoming that a most pure God should have a Mother pure from all sin, He created her spotless. Here we may apply the words of the Apostle to the Hebrews: *For it was fitting that we should have such a high priest; holy, innocent, undefiled, separated from sinners* (Heb. vii. 26). A learned author observes that, according to St. Paul, it was fitting that our Blessed Redeemer should not only be separated from sin, but also from sinners; according to the explanation of St. Thomas, who says, \"that it was necessary that He, Who came to take away sins, should be separated from sinners, as to the fault under which Adam lay.\" But how could Jesus Christ be said to be separated from sinners, if He had a Mother who was a sinner?

St. Ambrose says, \"that Christ chose this vessel into which He was about to descend, not of earth, but from Heaven; and He consecrated it a temple of purity.\" This agrees with that which St. John the Baptist revealed to St. Bridget, saying: \"It was not becoming that the King of Glory should repose otherwise than in a chosen vessel exceeding all men and angels in purity.\" And to this we may add that which the Eternal Father Himself said to the same Saint: \"Mary was a clean, and an unclean vessel: clean, for she was all fair; but unclean because she was born of sinners, though she was conceived without sin, that My Son might be born of her without sin.\" And remark these last words: \"Mary was conceived without sin.\" Not that Jesus Christ could have contracted sin; but that He might not be reproached with even having a Mother infected with it, who would consequently have been the slave of the devil.

The Holy Ghost says that *the glory of a man is from the honour of his father, and a father without honour is the disgrace of the son* (Ecclus. iii. 13). \"Therefore it was,\" says an ancient writer, \"that Jesus preserved the body of Mary from corruption after death; for it would have been to His dishonour had that virginal flesh with which He had clothed Himself become the food of worms.\" For, he adds: \"Corruption is a disgrace of human nature; and as Jesus was not subject to it, Mary was also exempted; for the flesh of Jesus is the flesh of Mary.\" But since corruption of her body would have been a disgrace for Jesus Christ, because He was born of her, how much greater would the disgrace have been, had He been born of a mother whose soul was once infected by the corruption of sin? For not only is it true that the flesh of Jesus is the same as that of Mary, \"but,\" adds the same author, \"the flesh of our Saviour, even after His Resurrection, remained the same that He had taken from His Mother. The flesh of Christ is the flesh of Mary; and though it was glorified by the glory of His Resurrection, yet it remains the same that was taken from Mary.\" And now if this is true, supposing that the Blessed Virgin had been conceived in sin, though the Son could not have contracted its stain, nevertheless His having united flesh to Himself which once had been infected with sin, a vessel of uncleanness and subject to Lucifer, would always have been a dishonour to Him.

Mary was not only the Mother, but the worthy Mother of our Saviour. She is called so by all the holy Fathers. St. Bernard says: \"Thou alone wast found worthy to be chosen as the one in whose virginal womb the King of kings should have His first abode.\" St. Thomas of Villanova says: \"Before she conceived she was already worthy to be the Mother of God.\" The Holy Church herself attests that Mary merited to be the Mother of Jesus Christ, saying: \"The Blessed Virgin, who merited to bear in her womb Christ our Lord\"; and St. Thomas Aquinas, explaining these words, says, that \"the Blessed Virgin is said to have merited to bear the Lord of all; not that she merited His Incarnation, but that she merited, by the graces she had received, such a degree of purity and sanctity, that she could worthily be the Mother of God\"; that is to say, Mary could not merit the Incarnation of the Eternal Word, but by divine grace she merited such a degree of perfection as to render her worthy to be the Mother of a God; according to what St. Augustine says: \"Her singular sanctity, the effect of grace, merited that she alone should be judged worthy to receive a God.\"

And now, supposing that Mary was worthy to be the Mother of God, \"what excellence and what perfection was there that did not become her?\" asks St. Thomas of Villanova. St. Thomas says: \"that when God chooses any one for a particular dignity, He renders him fit for it\"; hence he adds: \"that God, having chosen Mary for His Mother, He also by His grace rendered her worthy of this highest of all dignities.\" \"The Blessed Virgin was divinely chosen to be the Mother of God, and therefore we cannot doubt that God had fitted her by His grace for this dignity; and we are assured of it by the Angel: *For thou hast found grace with God; behold thou shalt conceive* (Luke i. 50). And thence the Saint argues that \"the Blessed Virgin never committed any actual sin, not even a venial one. Otherwise,\" he says, \"she would not have been a mother worthy of Jesus Christ; for the ignominy of the Mother would also have been that of the Son, for He would have had a sinner for His mother.\" And now if Mary, on account of a single venial sin, which does not deprive a soul of divine grace, would not have been a mother worthy of God, how much more unworthy would she have been had she contracted the guilt of original sin, which would have made her an enemy of God and a slave of the devil? And this reflection it was that made St. Augustine utter those memorable words, that, when speaking of Mary for the honour of Our Lord, Whom she merited to have for her Son, he would not entertain even the question of sin in her; \"for we know,\" he says, \"that through Him, Who it is evident was without sin, and Whom she merited to conceive and bring forth, she received grace to conquer all sin.\"

It was no shame to Jesus Christ that He was contemptuously called by the Jews the Son of Mary, meaning that He was the Son of a poor woman: *Is not his mother called Mary?* (Matt. xiii. 55). He came into this world to give us an example of humility and patience. But, on the other hand, it would undoubtedly have been a disgrace should He have heard the devil say: \"Was not His mother a sinner? Was He not born of a wicked mother, who was once our slave?\" It would even have been unbecoming had Jesus Christ been born of a woman whose body was deformed, or crippled, or possessed by devils; but how much more would it not have been so, had He been born of a woman whose soul had been once deformed by sin, and in the possession of Lucifer!

Ah! indeed, God, Who is Wisdom itself, well knew how to prepare Himself a becoming dwelling, in which to reside on earth: *Wisdom hath built herself a house* (Prov. ix. 1). *The Most High has sanctified his own tabernacle. God will help it in the morning early* (Ps. xlv. 5, 6). David says our Lord sanctified this His dwelling *in the morning early*; that is to say, from the beginning of her life, to render her worthy of Himself; for it was not becoming that a Holy God should choose Himself a dwelling that was not holy: *Holiness becometh thy house* (Ps. xcii. 5). The Holy Church sings: \"Thou, O Lord, hast not disdained to dwell in the Virgin\'s Womb.\" Yes, for He would have disdained to have taken flesh in the womb of an Agnes, a Gertrude, a Teresa, because these virgins, though holy, were nevertheless for a time stained with original sin; but He did not disdain to become Man in the womb of Mary, because this beloved Virgin was always pure and free from the least shadow of sin, and was never possessed by the infernal serpent. And therefore, St. Augustine says: \"the Son of God never made Himself a more worthy dwelling than Mary, who was never possessed by the enemy, nor despoiled of her ornaments.\" On the other hand St. Cyril of Alexandria asks: \"Who ever heard of an architect who built himself a temple, and yielded up the first possession of it to his greatest enemy?\"

Yes, says St. Methodius, speaking on the same subject, that Lord Who commanded us to honour our parents, would not do otherwise, when He became Man, than observe it, by giving His Mother every grace and honour: \"He Who said, *Honour thy father and thy mother*, that He might observe His own decree, gave all grace and honour to His Mother.\" Therefore we must certainly believe that Jesus Christ preserved the body of Mary from corruption after death; for if He had not done so, He would not have observed the law, which, at the same time that it commands us to honour our mother, forbids us to show her disrespect. But how little would Jesus have guarded His Mother\'s honour, had He not preserved her from Adam\'s sin! \"Certainly that son would sin,\" says the Augustinian Father Thomas of Strasburg, \"who, having it in his power to preserve his mother from original sin did not do so.\" \"But that which would be a sin in us,\" continues the same author, \"would certainly have been considered un-becoming in the Son of God, Who, whilst He could make His Mother immaculate, did it not.\" \"Ah, no,\" exclaims Gerson, \"since Thou, the supreme Prince, choosest to have a Mother, certainly Thou owest her honour. But now if Thou didst permit her, who was to be the dwelling-place of the all-pure God, to be in the abomination of original sin, certainly it would appear that the law was not well fulfilled.\"

\"Moreover, we know,\" says St. Bernardine of Sienna, \"that the Divine Son came into the world to redeem Mary more than all other creatures.\" There are two means by which a person may be redeemed, as St. Augustine teaches us: the one by raising him up after having fallen, and the other by preventing him from falling; and this last means is doubtless the more honourable. \"He is more honourably redeemed,\" says the learned Suarez, \"who is prevented from falling, than he who, after falling, is raised up\"; for thus the injury or stain, which the soul always contracts in falling, is avoided. This being the case, we ought certainly to believe that Mary was redeemed in the more honourable way, and the one more becoming to the Mother of God, as St. Bonaventure remarks, \"for it is to be believed that the Holy Ghost, as a very special favour, redeemed and preserved her from original sin by a new kind of sanctification, and this in the very moment of her Conception; not that sin was in her, but that it might otherwise have been.\" On the same subject Cardinal Cusano beautifully remarks, that \"others had Jesus as a liberator, but to the most Blessed Virgin He was a pre-liberator\"; meaning, that all others had a Redeemer Who delivered them from sin with which they were already defiled, but that the most Blessed Virgin had a Redeemer Who, because He was to become her Son, preserved her from ever being defiled by sin.

In fine, to conclude in the words of Hugo of St. Victor, the tree is known by its fruits. If the Lamb was always immaculate, the Mother must also have been always immaculate: \"Such the Lamb, such the Mother of the Lamb; for the tree is known by its fruits.\" Hence this same Doctor salutes Mary, saying: \"O worthy Mother of a worthy Son\"; meaning, that no other than Mary was worthy to be the Mother of such a Son, and no other than Jesus was a worthy Son of such a Mother; and then he adds these words: \"O fair Mother of Beauty itself, O high Mother of the Most High, O Mother of God!\" Let us then address this most Blessed Mother in the words of St. Ildephonsus: \"Suckle, O Mary, thy Creator, give milk to Him Who made thee, and Who made thee such that He could be made of thee.\" Amen.

