
IV\. — DEVOTION TOWARDS THE GREAT MOTHER OF GOD

As regards this devotion, I hope the reader is fully persuaded that in order to insure eternal salvation, it is most important to be devout to the great Mother of God. And if he should wish to be still more convinced of it, I would beg him to read the book I have written, *The Glories of Mary*. I shall here speak only of the practices to be observed, that you may obtain the protection of this sovereign Lady. First, every morning and evening, when you get up and before you go to bed, say three *Hail Marys*, adding this short prayer: *By thy pure and Immaculate Conception, O Mary, make my body pure and my soul holy!* And put yourself beneath her mantle that she may keep you that day or that night from sin. And every time you hear the clock strike, say a *Hail Mary*. Do the same whenever you go in or out of the house, and when you pass by any statue or picture of the Blessed Virgin. So also when you begin and finish any of your occupations, such as study, work, eating, or sleeping, never omit to say a *Hail Mary*.

Secondly, say the *Rosary* every day, at least five decades, meditating on the Mysteries. Many devout people also say the Office of Our Lady. It would be well to say at any rate the Little Office of the Name of Mary, which is very short, and composed of five short psalms.

Thirdly, say an *Our Father* and *Hail Mary* every day to the ever-blessed Trinity in thanksgiving for the graces that have been bestowed upon Mary. The Blessed Virgin herself revealed to a person that this devotion was very pleasing to her.

Fourthly, fast on bread and water every Saturday in honour of Mary, or at least on the Vigils of her seven Feasts. At any rate fast in the ordinary way, or eat only of one dish, or abstain from something you like. In short, make use of some kind of mortification on Saturdays, and on the above-named Vigils, for the sake of this Queen, who (as St. Andrew of Crete says) repays these little things with great graces.

Fifthly, pay a *Visit* every day to some image of your Patroness, and ask her to give you holy perseverance and the love of Jesus Christ.

Sixthly, let no day pass without reading a little about Our Lady.

Seventhly, make the *Novenas* for the seven principal Feasts of Mary, and ask your confessor to tell you what devotions and mortifications you should practise during those nine days. Say at least nine *Hail Marys* and *Glory be to the Father*, and beg her each day of the Novena to give you some special grace of which you are in need.

Lastly, often recommend yourself to this Divine Mother during the day, and particularly in time of temptation, saying at such times, and often repeating with great affection: O Mary help me! Help me, O my Mother!

And if you love Mary, try to promote devotion to this great Mother of God among your relations, friends and servants.

