
In this day\'s Gospel we read that, having gone into the desert, Jesus Christ permitted the devil to *set him upon the pinnacle of the temple*, and say to Him: *If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down* (Matt. iv. 6); for the Angels shall preserve Thee from all injury. But the Lord answered that in the Sacred Scriptures it is written: *Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.*

The sinner who abandons himself to sin without striving to resist temptations or without at least asking God\'s help to conquer them, and hopes that the Lord will one day draw him forth out of the precipice, tempts God to work miracles, or rather to show to him an extraordinary mercy not extended to the generality of Christians. God, as the Apostle says, *will have all men to be saved* (1 Tim. ii. 4); but He also wishes us all to labour for our own salvation, or at least to adopt the means of overcoming our enemies, and to obey God when He calls us to repentance. Sinners hear the calls of God, but they forget them, and continue to offend Him. But God does not forget them. He numbers the many graces He dispenses, as well as the many sins we commit. Hence, when the time which He has fixed arrives, God deprives us of His graces, and begins to inflict chastisement.

*The Lord hath sent me to heal the contrite of heart.* (Is. lxi. 1). God is ready to heal those who sincerely wish to amend their lives, but He cannot take pity on the obstinate sinner. The Lord pardons sins, but He cannot pardon sinners who are determined to offend Him. Nor can we demand from God a reason why He pardons one a hundred sins, and takes others out of life, and condemns them to hell after three or four sins. By His Prophet Amos, God has said: *For three crimes of Damascus, and for four, I will not convert it.* (Amos. i. 3). In this we must adore the judgments of God, and say with the Apostle: *O the depth of the riches, of the wisdom, and of the knowledge of God! How incomprehensible are his judgments.* (Rom. xi. 33). He who receives pardon, says St. Augustine, is pardoned through the pure mercy of God; and they who are chastised are justly punished.

How many has God sent to hell for the first offence! St. Gregory relates that a child of five years who had arrived at the use of reason, for having uttered a blasphemy, was seized by the devil and carried to hell. The Divine Mother revealed to that great servant of God Benedicta of Florence, that a boy of twelve years was damned after the first sin. Another boy of eight years died after his first sin and was lost. You say: I am young: there are many who have committed more sins than I have. But is God on that account obliged to wait for your repentance if you offend Him? In the Gospel of St. Matthew we read, that the Saviour cursed a fig-tree the first time He saw it without fruit. *May no fruit grow on thee henceforward forever. And immediately the fig-tree withered away*. (Matt. xxi. 19). You must, then, tremble at the thought of committing a single mortal sin, particularly if you have already been guilty of mortal sins.

*Be not without fear about sins forgiven, and add not sin to sin.* (Ecclus. v. 5). Say not then, O sinner: As God has forgiven me other sins, so He will pardon me this one if I commit it. Speak not thus; for, if to the sin which has been forgiven you add another, you have reason to fear that this new sin will be united to your former guilt, and that thus the number will be completed, and that you will be abandoned. Sinners multiply their sins without keeping any account of them; but God numbers them, that when the harvest is ripe, that is, when the number of sins is completed, He may take vengeance on them. *Put ye in the sickles for the harvest is ripe.* (Joel iii. 13).

Of this there are many examples in the Scriptures. Speaking of the Hebrews, the Lord in one place says: *All the men that have tempted me now ten times... shall not see the land.* (Num. xiv. 22, 23). In another place He says that he restrained His vengeance against the Amorrhites, because the number of their sins was not completed. *For as yet the iniquities of the Amorrhites are not at the full.* (Gen. xv. 16). We have, again, the example of Saul, who, after having disobeyed God a second time, was abandoned. He entreated Samuel to interpose before the Lord in his behalf. *Bear, I beseech thee, my sin, and return with me, that I may adore the Lord.* But, knowing that God had abandoned Saul, Samuel answered: *I will not return with thee, because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee.* (1 Kings xv. 25). Saul, you have abandoned God, and He has abandoned you. We have another example in Balthassar, who, after having profaned the vessels of the Temple, saw a hand writing on the wall: *Mane, Thecel, Phares*. Daniel was requested to expound the meaning of these words. In explaining the word *Thecel*, he said to the king: *Thou art weighed in the balance, and art found wanting.* (Dan. v. 27). By this explanation he gave the king to understand that the weight of his sins in the balance of Divine justice had made the scale descend. *The same night, Balthassar, the Chaldean king, was killed*. (Dan. v. 30).

Oh, how many sinners have met with a similar fate! Continuing to offend God till their sins amounted to a certain number, they have been struck dead and sent to hell. *They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment they go down to hell*. (Job xxi. 13). Tremble lest, if you commit another mortal sin, God should cast you into hell.

