
By mortifications we atone in this life for the pains due to our sins. He that has offended God, though the offence may be pardoned, must either by expiatory works in this life, or by the pains of Purgatory in the next, make satisfaction for the temporal punishment due to sin after remission of its guilt. His sufferings in Purgatory will be infinitely greater than any torments that he could endure on earth. *They shall be in very great tribulation, unless they do penance from, their deeds.* (Apoc. ii. 22). They who have not expiated their sins shall suffer the sharpest torments in the other world. St. Antoninus relates that an Angel proposed to a sick man the choice of being confined to Purgatory for three days, or of being condemned to a continuation of his infirmities for two years. The sick man chose the three days in Purgatory; but scarcely had an hour elapsed in that place of torments, than he began to complain of the Angel for having condemned him to a purgation not of three days, but of several years. \"What!\" replied the Angel, \"your body is still warm on the bed of death, and you speak of having spent years in Purgatory.\" If you wish to suffer in peace, imagine that you have still to live fifteen or twenty years, and say: This is my Purgatory: it is the spirit rather than the body that I must conquer.

Mortifications raise the soul to God. St. Franicis de Sales used to say that a soul cannot ascend to the throne of God unless the flesh is mortified and depressed. There are many beautiful remarks on this subject in the *Works* of St. Teresa: \"It would be a folly,\" says this great Saint, \"to think that God admits to His familiar friendship those who seek their own ease. Sensuality and prayer are incompatible. Souls who truly love God cannot desire repose.\"

Mortifications merit great glory in Heaven. If \"every one who striveth for the mastery,\" abstains from whatever is likely to diminish his strength, and thus endanger the conquest of a miserable earthly crown, how much more should we deny the flesh for the attainment of an eternal kingdom? *And they*, indeed, says St. Paul, *that they may receive a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible one.* (1 Cor. ix. 25). St. John saw all the Saints with *palms in their hands.* (Apoc. vii. 9). From this passage we learn that all the Elect must be Martyrs, either by the sword of the tyrant or by the voluntary crucifixion of the flesh. But while we consider the necessity of works of penance, we should at the same time remember that the pains of this life bear no proportion to the eternal glory that awaits us in Paradise. *The sufferings of this time*, says St. Paul, *are not worthy to be compared with the glory to come, that shall be revealed in us.* (Rom. viii. 18). The few transitory mortifications which we practise here below will produce complete and everlasting felicity. *For*, says the Apostle, *that which is at present momentary and light of our tribulation, worketh for us above measure exceedingly an eternal weight of glory.* (2 Cor. iv. 17).

Let us, then, animate our faith. Our pilgrimage on earth will not be of long duration: our home is eternity, where he who has practised the greatest mortifications during life shall enjoy the greatest glory. St. Peter says the Saints are the living stones of which the celestial Jerusalem is built. But before they are translated to the city which is above, they must be polished by the salutary chisel of penance.

