
XXIII.-MARY IS OUR LIFE BECAUSE SHE OBTAINS FOR US PERSEVERANCE.

We, says St. Thomas of Villanova, when tempted by the devil need only imitate little chickens which, as soon as they perceive the approach of a bird of prey, run under the wings of their mother for protection. This is exactly what we should do whenever we are assaulted by temptation: we should not stay to reason with it, but immediately fly and place ourselves under the mantle of Mary. I will, however, quote the Saint’s own words addressed to Mary: “As chickens when they see a kite soaring above run and find refuge under the wings of the hen, so are we preserved under the shadow of thy wings.” “And thou,” he continues, “who art our Lady and Mother, hast to defend us; for, after God, we have no other refuge than thee, who art our only hope and our protectress; towards thee we all turn our eyes with confidence.”

Let us then conclude in the words of St. Bernard: “O man, whoever thou art, understand that in this world thou art tossed about on a stormy and tempestuous sea, rather than walking on solid ground; remember that if thou wouldst avoid being drowned thou must never turn thine eyes from the brightness of this star, but keep them fixed on it and call on Mary. In dangers, in straits, in doubts, think of Mary, invoke Mary.” Yes, in dangers of sinning, when molested by temptations, when doubtful as to how you should act, remember that Mary can help you and call upon her, and she will instantly succour you. “Let not her name leave thy lips, let it be ever in thy heart.” Your hearts should never lose confidence in her holy name nor should your lips ever cease to invoke it. “Following her thou wilt certainly not go astray.” Oh, no; if we follow Mary we shall never err from the paths of salvation. “Imploring her, thou wilt not despair.” Each time that we invoke her aid we shall be inspired with perfect confidence. “If she supports thee thou canst not fall; if she protects thee thou hast nothing to fear, for thou canst not be lost; with her for thy guide thou wilt not be weary, for thy salvation will be worked out with ease. If she is propitious thou wilt reach the port.” If Mary undertakes our defence we are certain of gaining the kingdom of Heaven. _This do and thou shalt live_-(Luke x. 28).

