
XX.-MARY IS OUR LIFE, BECAUSE SHE OBTAINS FOR US PERSEVERANCE

Final perseverance is so great a gift of God that, as was declared by the Holy Council of Trent, it is quite gratuitous on God’s part, and we cannot merit it. Yet we are told by St. Augustine that all who seek for it obtain it from God; and, according to Father Suarez, they obtain it infallibly, if only they are diligent in asking for it to the end of their lives. For, as Blessed Bellarmine well remarks, “that which is daily required must be asked for every day!” Now, if it is true (and I hold it as certain, according to the now generally received opinion) that all the graces God dispenses to men pass through the hands of Mary, it will be equally true that it is only through Mary that we can hope for this greatest of all graces-perseverance. And we shall obtain it most certainly, if we always seek it with confidence through Mary. This grace she herself promises to all who serve her faithfully during life, in the following words of Ecclesiasticus, and which are applied to her by the Church on the Feast of her Immaculate Conception: They that work by me shall not sin. _They that explain me shall have life everlasting_-(EccIus. xxiv. 30).

In order that we may be preserved in the life of grace, we require spiritual fortitude to resist the many enemies of our salvation. Now this fortitude can be obtained only by means of Mary, and we are assured of it in the Book of Proverbs, for the Church applies the passage to this most Blessed Virgin. _Strength is mine; by me kings reign_-(Prov. viii. 14); meaning by the words strength is mine that God has bestowed this precious gift on Mary in order that she may dispense it to her faithful clients. And by the words ‘By me kings reign’ she signifies that by her means her servants reign over and command their senses and passions, and thus become worthy to reign eternally in Heaven. Oh, what strength do the servants of this great Lady possess to overcome all the assaults of hell! Mary is that tower spoken of in the sacred Canticles: Thy neck is as the tower of David, which is built with bulwarks; _a thousand bucklers hang upon it, all the armour of valiant men_-(Cant. iv. 4). She is as a well defended fortress in defence of her lovers who, in their wars, have recourse to her. In her do her clients find all shields and arms to defend themselves against hell.

