
### TWENTIETH VISIT

The Prophet Zacharias says: _In that day there shall be a fountain open to the house of David, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, for the washing of the sinner_ -(Zach. xiii. 1). Jesus in the Holy Sacrament is the Fountain foretold by the Prophet as open to all, and to which we can go whenever we please, to wash our souls from all the stains of sin which are daily contracted. When anyone falls into some fault, what more beautiful remedy than to have immediate recourse to the Most Blessed Sacrament!

Yes, my Jesus, I resolve always to do this: for I know that the waters of this Fountain of Thine not only cleanse me, but also give me light, and strenghen me not to fall, and enable me cheerfully to bear contradictions, and also inflame me with Thy love. I know that for this end it is that Thou awaitest visits, and recompensest those of Thy lovers with so many graces. My Jesus, delay not, but wash me now from all the defects I have committed this day, and for which I am grieved because they have displeased Thee; strengthen me against relapse by giving me a great desire to love Thee much. Oh, could I but always dwell near Thee, as did Thy faithful servant Mary Diaz. She lived in the time of St. Teresa, and had permission from the Bishop of Avila to inhabit the tribune of a church, where she remained almost always in the presence of the Most Blessed Sacrament, which she called her Neighbour, and which she only left to go to Confession and Communion. When the Venerable Brother Francis of the Infant Jesus, of the Order of the Discalced Carmelites, passed before a church in which the Blessed Sacrament was kept, he could not refrain from entering to pay a visit to our Lord, saying that: “it was not becoming for a friend to pass before the door of a friend without entering at least to salute him and exchange a word.” But a word did not satisfy him; he always remained as long as obedience allowed him in the presence of his beloved Lord.

My only and infinite Good, I see that Thou hast instituted this Sacrament, and that Thou remainest on this altar to be loved by me; and that for this end Thou hast given me a heart capable of loving Thee much. Why is it, then, that I am so ungrateful as not to love Thee, or that I love Thee so little? Now it is not just that such goodness as Thou art should be so little loved. The love, at least, which Thou bearest me deserves other and greater love on my part. Thou art an infinite God and I am a miserable worm. It would be little did I die for Thee, or wear myself out for Thee, Who didst die for me, and dost still sacrifice Thyself for me every day on the altar. Thou deservest to be much loved; I will love Thee much; help me, my Jesus, help me to love Thee, help me to do that which pleases Thee so much, and which Thou so earnestly seekest of me.

Ejac. My Beloved to me, and I to my Beloved! -(Cant. ii. 16).

### AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

### VISIT TO MARY

O my most sweet, most compassionate most amiable Queen, how great is the confidence with which St. Bernard inspires me when I have recourse to thee! He says that thou dost not examine the merits of those who have recourse to thy compassion, but that thou offerest thyself to help all who pray to thee: “Mary does not discuss merits, but shows herself ready to hear and welcome all.” Therefore I pray to thee thou dost graciously hear me. Well, then, listen to what I have to ask: I am a poor sinner, deserving of a thousand hells. I wish to change my life; I wish to love my God, Whom I have so greatly offended. I dedicate myself to thee as thy slave; to thee I give myself, miserable as I am; save, then, a poor creature who is no longer his own but thine. My Lady, dost thou understand me? Yes, I trust that thou hast understood me, and graciously heard my prayer.

Ejac. O Mary, I am thine, save me!

### Concluding Prayer

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

