
### TWENTY-THIRD VISIT

Many Christians submit to great fatigue, and expose themselves to many dangers, to visit the places in the Holy Land where our most loving Saviour was born, suffered and died. We need not undertake so long a journey, nor expose ourselves to so many dangers; the same Lord is near us, and dwells in the church, only a few steps distant from our homes. If pilgrims, says St. Paulinus, consider it a great thing to bring back a little dust from the Crib, or from the Holy Sepulchre in which Jesus was buried, with what ardour should we not visit the Blessed Sacrament, where the same Jesus is in person, and where we can go without encountering so much fatigue and so many dangers! A religious person, to whom God had given great love for the Most Blessed Sacrament, amongst other things wrote as follows in a letter: “I see that every good thing I have comes to me from the Most Blessed Sacrament. I have given and consecrated my whole self to Jesus in this Sacrament. I see innumerable graces which are not granted because people do not go to this divine Sacrament. I see the great desire that our Lord has to dispense His graces in this Sacrament. O holy Mystery! O Sacred Host! Where is it that God best displays His power, if it is not in this Host? For this Host contains all that God has ever done for us. Let us not envy the Blessed in Heaven, since on earth we have the same Lord, but with greater wonders of His love. Induce all with whom you speak to devote themselves to the Most Blessed Sacrament. I speak thus because this Sacrament enraptures my soul. Nor can I cease to speak of the Most Blessed Sacrament, which deserves so greatly to be loved. I know not what to do for Jesus in this Sacrament.” Thus the letter ends.

O ye Seraphim, who remain sweetly burning with love around your and my Lord, though it is not indeed for love of you, but of me, that this King of Heaven is pleased to be present in this Sacrament-O loving Angels, let me also burn with love; and do you enkindle your love in me that with you I also may burn! O my Jesus, teach me to know the greatness of the love Thou bearest to men, that at the sight of so great love my desire to love Thee and please Thee may go on always increasing! I love Thee, most amiable Lord, and I will always love Thee; and this only to please Thee.

Ejac. My Jesus, I believe in Thee, I hope in Thee, I love Thee, and I give myself to Thee!

### AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

### VISIT TO MARY

Most amiable Virgin, St. Bonaventure calls thee “the Mother of orphans”; and St. Ephrem, moreover, calls thee “the receiver of orphans.” Alas, these wretched orphans are no other than poor sinners who have lost God! Behold, then, I have recourse to thee, Most Holy Mary. I have lost my Father; but thou art my Mother, who must enable me to recover Him. In this my so great misfortune I call thee to my aid; do thou succour me. Shall I remain disconsolate? No; for Innocent III, speaking of thee, says: “Who ever called upon her and was not graciously heard by her?” And who ever prayed to thee, and was not heard and helped by thee? Who was ever lost who had recourse to thee? He alone is lost who has not recourse to thee. Then, my Queen, if thou desirest my salvation, enable me always to invoke and confide in thee.

Ejac. My own most Holy Mary, give me confidence in thee!

Concluding Prayer

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

