
### TWENTY-EIGHTH VISIT

God, having given us His own Son, says St. Paul, what good thing is there we can fear He might deny us? _How hath he not also with him given us all things?_-(Rom. viii. 32). We know, indeed, that all the Eternal Father has, He has given to Jesus Christ: _The Father has given him all things into his hands_-(Jo. xiii. 2). Let us, then, ever thank the goodness, the mercy, the liberality of our most loving God, Who has been pleased to make us rich in all good things, and in every grace, by giving us Jesus in the Sacrament of the Altar: _In all things you are made rich in him . . .so that nothing is wanting to you in any grace_-(l Cor. i. 5, 7).

Therefore, O Saviour of the world, O Incarnate Word, if I desire to possess Thee, I can consider Thee as mine and all mine. But can I at the same time say I am all Thine, as Thou desirest? Ah, my Lord, prevent it; and never let the world witness such disorder and ingratitude as that I should not be Thine when Thou desirest me! Ah, no; let it never be! If it has been so hitherto, let it never be so again. I now, with the utmost determination, consecrate myself entirely to Thee; for time and eternity I consecrate to Thee my life, my will, my thoughts, my actions, my sufferings. Behold me Thine; as a victim consecrated to Thee I bid farewell to all creatures, and offer my whole self to Thee. Consume me with the flames of Thy divine love. No, I am determined that creatures shall no longer share my heart. The proofs Thou hast given me of the love Thou bearest me, even at a time when I did not love Thee, make me hope that Thou certainly acceptest me now that I love Thee, and out of love give myself to Thee.

Eternal Father, I now offer Thee all the virtues, the actions, the affections of the Heart of Thy dear Jesus. Accept them, and by His merits, which are all mine¬for He has given them to me-grant me the graces Jesus asks Thee for me. With these merits I thank Thee for the many mercies Thou hast shown me; with these I satisfy for what I owe Thee for my sins; through these I hope for every grace from Thee-pardon, perseverance, Paradise, and, above all, the crowning gift of Thy pure love. I well see that to all these gifts I myself place impediments; but do Thou also remedy this. I ask it of Thee in the Name of Jesus Christ, Who has promised: _Whatsoever you shall ask the Father in my name that will I do_-(Jo. xiv. 13). Then Thou canst not refuse me. Lord, my only desire is to love Thee, to give myself to Thee without reserve, and no longer to be ungrateful to Thee, as I have hitherto been. Behold me, and graciously hear me; grant that this may be the day of my entire conversion to Thee, so that I may never more cease to love Thee. I love Thee, my God! I love Thee, Infinite Goodness! I love Thee, my Love, my Paradise, my Good, my Life, my All!

Ejac. My Jesus Who art all mine, Thou desirest me, and I desire Thee!

**AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION**

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

**VISIT TO MARY**

What relief do I not feel in my miseries, and what consolation in my tribulations, what strength do I not find in the midst of temptations, when I remember and call thee to my aid, O my most sweet and most holy Mother Mary! Yes, indeed, you were right, O ye Saints, in calling my Lady, “the haven of those who are in tribulation,” with St. Ephrem; “the repairer of our calamities,” and “the solace of the miserable,” with St. Bonaventure; and “the rest from our mournings,” with St. Germanus. My own Mary, do thou console me. I see myself loaded with sins, and surrounded by enemies, without virtue, and cold in my love towards God. Comfort me, comfort me, and let my consolation be to begin a new life-a life which will be really pleasing to thy Son and to thee.

Ejac. Change me, O Mary my Mother, change me; thou canst do it.

**Concluding Prayer**

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

