
### THIRTIETH VISIT

_Why hidest thou thy face?_–(Job xiii. 24). Job feared when he saw that God hid His face: but to know that Jesus Christ veils His majesty in the Most Blessed Sacrament should not inspire us with fear, but rather with greater love and confidence; since it is precisely to increase our confidence, and with greater evidence to manifest His love, that He remains on our altars concealed under the appearance of bread. Novarinus says: “God in hiding His face in this Sacrament discloses His love.” And who would ever dare to approach Him with confidence, and lay bare before Him his affections and desires, did this King of Heaven appear on our altars in the splendours of His glory?

Ah, my Jesus, what a loving invention was this of the Most Blessed Sacrament, in which Thou hidest Thyself under the appearance of bread, in order to make Thyself loved and that Thou mayest be found on earth by all who desire Thee! The Prophet was right in saying that men should speak and raise their voices throughout the world, in order to make known to all men, to what an excess the inventions of the love of our good God go for us. _Make his works known among the people_-(Is. xii. 4). O most loving Heart of my Jesus, worthy to possess the hearts of all creatures-Heart all and ever full of flames of most pure love! O consuming Fire, consume my whole being, and give me a new life of love and grace! Unite me to Thyself in such a way that I may never more be separated from Thee. O Heart open to be the refuge of souls, receive me! O Heart, which on the Cross was so agonised for the sins of the world, give me true sorrow for my sins! I know that in this Sacrament Thou preservest the same sentiments of love for me which Thou hadst when dying on Calvary; and therefore Thou hast an ardent desire to unite me wholly to Thyself. And is it possible that I should any longer resist yielding up my entire self to Thy love and to Thy desire? Ah, by Thy merits, my beloved Jesus, be pleased Thyself to wound me, to bind me, to force me, to unite me in all things to Thy Heart. I am now determined by Thy grace to give Thee all the pleasure I possibly can, by trampling under foot all human respect, my inclinations, repugnances, all my tastes and conveniences, which may prevent me from entirely pleasing Thee. Do Thou, my Lord, so help me, that I may execute this determination in such a way that henceforth all my works, opinions, and affections may be in conformity with Thy good pleasure. O love of God, do Thou drive all other loves from my heart! O Mary, my hope, thou art all-powerful with God, obtain for me the grace to be a faithful servant of the pure love of Jesus until death. Amen, amen. So I hope; so may it be in time and eternity!

Ejac. _Who shall separate us from the love of Christ?_ -(Rom. viii. 85).

**AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION**

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

**VISIT TO MARY**

St. Bernard affirms that the love of Mary towards us cannot be greater or more powerful than it is; hence by her affection she is always abundant in her compassion for us, and by her power she is plentiful in the relief she affords us: “The most powerful and compassionate charity of the Mother of God abounds in tender compassion and in kind relief; she is equally rich in both.” So that, my most pure Queen, thou art rich in power, and rich in compassion; thou art able and desirest to save all. I therefore beseech thee now, and I will do so always, in the words of the devout Blosius: “O Lady, protect me in my combats, and strengthen me when I am wavering.” O most holy Mary, in this great battle in which I am engaged with hell, do thou always succour me; but when thou seest me wavering and likely to fall, O Lady, do thou then extend thy hand with greater promptitude, and sustain me with greater vigour. O God, how many temptations have I still to overcome before my death! Mary, my hope, my refuge, my strength, do thou protect me, and never allow me to lose the grace of God. And On my part I resolve always and instantly to have recourse to thee in all temptations, saying:

Ejac. Help me, Mary! Mary, help me.

**Concluding Prayer**

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

