
### TWENTY-FIFTH VISIT

St. Paul praises the obedience of Jesus Christ, saying that He obeyed His Eternal Father even unto death: _becoming obedient even unto death_-(Philipp. ii. 8). But in this Sacrament He has gone still farther; for here He has been pleased to become obedient, not only to His Eternal Father, but also to man; and not only unto death, but as long as the world shall last; so that we can say: “He has become obedient even unto the consummation of the world.” He, the King of Heaven, comes down from Heaven in obedience to man, and then seems to dwell and converse there, in order to obey men: And I do not resist. There He remains without moving Himself; He allows Himself to be placed where men will, be it for exposition in the Monstrance, or to be enclosed in the Tabernacle. He allows Himself to be carried wheresoever He is borne, be it into houses or through the streets; He allows Himself to be given in Communion to whomsoever He is administered, be they just or sinners. St. Luke says that whilst He dwelt on earth He obeyed the Most Blessed Virgin Mary and St. Joseph; but in this Sacrament He obeys as many creatures as there are priests on earth: _and I do not resist_-(Is. 1. 5).

Permit me now to address Thee, O most loving Heart of my Jesus, from which indeed all the Sacraments flowed forth, but principally this Sacrament of love. I would gladly give Thee as much glory and honour as Thou givest in the Holy Sacrament to the Eternal Father. I know that on this altar Thou still lovest me with that same love with which Thou didst love me when Thou didst close Thy divine life in the midst of so much anguish on the Cross. O Divine Heart, enlighten all those who know Thee not with the knowledge of Thyself! Through Thy merits deliver from Purgatory, or at least relieve, the afflicted souls, who are already Thy spouses for all eternity. I adore Thee, I thank Thee, I love Thee, in union with all souls who at this moment love Thee, be they on earth or in Heaven.

O most pure Heart, purify my heart from all attachment to creatures, and fill it with Thy holy love! O sweetest Heart of Jesus, possess my heart, so that henceforward it may be all Thine, and may be always able to say: _Who, then, shall separate us from the love of God, … which is in Christ Jesus, our Lord?-_(Rom. viii. 38). Write, O Most Sacred Heart of Jesus, upon my heart all the bitter sorrows which for so many years Thou didst endure on earth with so much love for me, that, on seeing them, I may henceforward desire, or at least endure with patience, all the sorrows of this life. Most humble Heart of Jesus, give me a share of Thy humility. Most meek Heart, impart Thy sweetness to me. Take from my heart all that displeases Thee; convert it wholly to Thee, so that I may no longer will or desire other than what Thou willest. In a word, grant that I may live only to obey Thee, only to love Thee, only to give Thee pleasure. I know that I, indeed, owe Thee much; and that Thou hast indeed placed me under great obligations: it will be but little if I consume and wear myself out for Thee.

Ejac. O Heart of Jesus, Thou art the sole Lord of my heart!

**AN ACT OF SPIRITUAL COMMUNION**.

My Jesus, I believe that Thou art truly present in the Most Holy Sacrament. I love Thee above all things, and I desire to possess Thee within my soul. Since I am unable now to receive Thee sacramentally, come at least spiritually into my heart. I embrace Thee as already there, and unite myself wholly to Thee; never permit me to be separated from Thee.

**VISIT TO MARY**

St. Bernard says that Mary is that heavenly Ark in which, if we take refuge, we shall certainly be delivered from the shipwreck of eternal damnation: “She is the ark in which we escape shipwreck.” The Ark In which Noe escaped from the general wreck of the world was indeed a type of Mary. But Hesychius says that Mary is a more spacious, a stronger, and a more compassionate Ark. Only a few men and a few beasts were received into and saved by the Ark of Noe; but Mary, our Ark, receives all who take refuge under her mantle, and with certainty saves them. Unfortunate should we be had we not Mary! But still, my Queen, how many are lost! And why? Because they have not recourse to thee. And who would ever be lost had he recourse to thee?

Ejac. Grant, most holy Mary, that we may always have recourse to thee!

**Concluding Prayer**

Most holy Immaculate Virgin and my Mother Mary, to thee, who art the Mother of my Lord, and Queen of the world, the advocate, the hope, the refuge of sinners, I have recourse today I, who am the most miserable of all. I render thee my most humble homage, O great Queen, and I thank thee for all the graces thou hast conferred on me until now, particularly for having delivered me from hell, which I have so often deserved. I love thee, O most amiable Lady; and for the love which I bear thee, I promise to serve thee always, and to do all in my power to make others love thee also. I place in thee all my hopes; I confide my salvation to thy care. Accept me for thy servant, and receive me under thy mantle, O Mother of Mercy. And since thou art so powerful with God, deliver me from all temptations, or rather obtain for me the strength to triumph over them until death. Of thee I ask a perfect love of Jesus Christ. From thee I hope to die a good death.

O my Mother, for the love which thou bearest to God, I beseech thee to help me at all times, but especially at the last moment of my life. Leave me not, I beseech thee, until thou seest me safe in Heaven, blessing thee, and singing thy mercies for all eternity. Amen. So I hope. So may it be.

